VENUE:performance-space-ny | Performance Space New York
URL:https://performancespacenewyork.org/shows/
FETCHED:2026-10-07T06:57:43.312Z

https://performancespacenewyork.org/

ARCHIVES: SHOWS

GASOLINE GIRL [https://performancespacenewyork.org/shows/gasoline-girl-yesenia-rojas/]

Gasoline Girl draws on the technology of the CDJ, an instrument that marks and ultimately unsettles how one arrives at time. For Yesenia Rojas, it can also intervene with the limits of reality by cutting, looping, and slicing through it. Animated by the chaos of the elemental world, specifically oil as a dialectical engine that traces and touches bodies and social systems, this work casts the compression of organic and mineral life onto the inherited tensions between sound and image. Deploying digital aesthetics, multi-deck experiments, and live video editing, this performance wrestles with the raw physicality of what it means to generate energy against the pulse and scratch of time.

Yesenia Rojas is an artist working across sound, video, installation, and performance. She explores notions of spontaneity, language, the body, and virtuality, combining sampling materials, both existing and otherwise, to challenge the possibilities and politics of image and text.

JERRON HERMAN ON INTERDEPENDENCE: FEELING, HEARING, & MOVING IT [https://performancespacenewyork.org/shows/jerron-herman-on-interdependence-feeling-hearing-moving-it/]

Disabled interdisciplinary artist Jerron Herman speaks on how to be yourself in community through inviting interactive activities across his two installations “LAX” and “Temporary Body” which encourage everyone to find what it means to be connected. Participants will play within the disability justice principle of interdependence by jointly pulling ropes to unravel their rest and collectively creating talismans, baubles, and crowns to wear and share. The freedom of movement grounds the entire experience to heighten witnessing, listening, and feeling while giving participants the chance to move themselves. With so much going on in our world, it’more important than ever to learn and practice how our unique body-minds help our neighbor, how our individual voice contributes to our community, and how play is protest.

Jerron Herman is a disabled artist compelled to create images of freedom for spaces ranging from Kampnagel and Artscape abroad to Danspace Project and Museum Mile in NYC. His accolades include a 2024 Fellowship from United States Artists, a 2021 Grants to Artists Award from the Foundation for Contemporary Arts, and a 2021 Dance Magazine Cover Story.

CAVERNOUS SHOAL SEASON OPENING [https://performancespacenewyork.org/shows/cavernous-shoal-season-opening/]

We are excited to open our 2026/2027 season with the unveiling of our transformed lobby and community space, OPEN ROOM, redesigned by Jesús Hilario-Reyes as our season-long resident. Entitled Cavernous Shoal, the space includes a bespoke sound system and a sculpture composed of mangrove roots to assemble a temporary ecology: one that stabilizes without fixing, gathers without enclosing, and produces forms of belonging that emerge through movement rather than permanence. The installation draws inspiration from the rhizomatic nature of DJ culture and shorelines shaped between land and sea, understanding the dancefloor in Black diasporic club culture as sites of perpetual transformation where belonging is secured through relation rather than geography.

For the Season Opening, Hilario-Reyes invites sound artist and experimental vocalist Ibrahima Mbaye to perform LIVING ROOM, arranging herself as vocalist among surfaces rigged to produce sound and samples when struck. She applies electroacoustic methods with spiritual animist logic, charging the room with sonic “soul stuff”, and moving through the space rendering imaginary friends to aid the composition. Here, Ibrahima further transform the installation into a living audio environment and playable instrument for live performance.

Please join us early in the courtyard at 4pm for drinks and a Seafood Boil by Raúl de Nieves and Pati Hertling! We invite you to gather, eat, drink, listen, commune and immerse yourself in the Cavernous Shoal.

Digital program available here [http://performancespacenewyork.org/wp-content/uploads/2026/09/SHOAL-SEASONOPENING_2026_DIGITAL-2.pdf]

BIO:

Ibrahima Mbaye is a sound artist and experimental vocalist based in New York City. Her live practice currently involves vocal synthesis, multi-instrumental play, and sound installation. She molds and refashions acoustic forms, projecting her internal, gendered logic of transition onto objects, spaces, instruments, and voice.

Ibrahima also DJs under the alias Doula. She is known for her unpredictable range and sound collage approach, crafting intense, psychedelic sets that disregard expectations of genre, functionality, tempo, cadence, and respectability.

WITCHY: SEASON FINALE [https://performancespacenewyork.org/shows/first-mondays-witchy/]

This seanson of First Mondays culminate with Witchy, featuring Juan Martinez, Shelley Marlow, and Carmen Maria Machado.

First Mondays brings a wide range of exciting writers presenting new, unpublished work-in-progress to an appreciative and sophisticated New York audience at Performance Space New York.  As part of our mission to build and grow literary community we will present some of our best known and most rewarded writers, along with terrific artists whose work is under-recognized, along with emerging writers with auspicious debuts, and some who have not yet published. See your favorites and discover new voices in a community audience.

Curated and organized by Sarah Schulman.

GREAT MINDS DO NOT THINK ALIKE [https://performancespacenewyork.org/shows/great-minds-do-not-think-alike/]

First Mondays presents Unruly, featuring Ricardo Montez, Elif Batuman, and Benjamin Moser*.

First Mondays brings a wide range of exciting writers presenting new, unpublished work-in-progress to an appreciative and sophisticated New York audience at Performance Space New York.  As part of our mission to build and grow literary community we will present some of our best known and most rewarded writers, along with terrific artists whose work is under-recognized, along with emerging writers with auspicious debuts, and some who have not yet published. See your favorites and discover new voices in a community audience.

Curated and organized by Sarah Schulman.