UID:415 | 2026-09-15 | "ISSUE Project Room" <info@issueprojectroom.org> | ISSUE's Creative Risks 2026 Gala

ISSUE is thrilled to honor all AIR at the 2026 Gala, held on Wednesday, October 14th. Tickets now available!

As ISSUE enters its next chapter, the 2026 Gala centers the artists and acts of experimentation that have defined the AIR program over the past twenty years.

Wednesday, October 14th - 7:30pm
22 Boerum Pl. Brooklyn NY 11201 

This year marks the 20th anniversary of ISSUE Project Room's Artists-In-Residence (AIR) program, and a lineage of visionary resident artists who have co-authored our history. In celebration of their contributions, accomplishments, and fearless creativity, ISSUE is thrilled to honor all AIR at the Creative Risks 2026 Gala, held Wednesday, October 14th at the 22 Boerum Pl. theater.

The evening will begin with a cocktail reception, with beverages generously provided by Sound + Fury Brewery, Slope Cellars, and Cardenxe Sotol, and catering by Pixie Scout. The celebration will then unfold around a Long Table, inspired by artist Lois Weaver’s open-ended, participatory project. The evening features a rare reunion performance by 2006 AIR Family Dynamics, the brief and brightly burning offshoot of the anarchic Brooklyn music collective Stars Like Fleas. After years of inactivity, Shelley Burgon, Shannon Fields, Laura Ortman, and Ryan Sawyer reunite the group for this special occasion. They will perform music from their archival release Service, the sole recording by Family Dynamics, reissued in 2023.

The Gala is an opportunity to invest in the future of artistic risk-taking at ISSUE. Proceeds support ongoing commissions, residencies, and premieres, ensuring that artists continue to have the resources and institutional support necessary to pursue ambitious new work. The evening honors the program’s lasting impact while reaffirming ISSUE’s commitment to developing new ways of supporting emerging practices—and to collectively imagine what the next twenty years might make possible.

In honor of the 20th anniversary, all past AIR have been invited to attend the Gala as our guests. If you are unable to attend, please consider sponsoring an artist ticket or making a tax-deductible contribution of any size. Your Gift will help support our programs and community of underserved artists.

 

 MORE INFORMATION
 
For information about the Gala & Host Committee please visit issueprojectroom.org or contact:
Monica Pabelonio, Interim Executive Director
(718) 330-0313 or monica@issueprojectroom.org

TICKETS

SUPPORT

ISSUE’s Creative Risks 2026 Gala is proudly supported* by

Herb Leventer

with In-Kind support from

*as of September 15, 2026

Instagram

Facebook

LinkedIn

Soundcloud

ISSUE Project Room
22 Boerum Pl
Brooklyn, NY 11201
issueprojectroom.org