UID:416 | 2026-09-15 | "Ambient Church" <info@ambient.church> | 📡 Legendary Brian Eno Collaborator Michael Brook live in NYC 9.26

Michael Brook performs live with Laraaji in NYC 9.26                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 

 

Michael Brook and Brian Eno

St. Bartholomew's Church
325 Park Ave, New York, NY 10022
Saturday, Sept 26th, 2026
12:00pm doors, 1:00pm show

We are overjoyed to welcome legendary guitarist, composer, inventor, and grammy-nominated 4AD recording artist Michael Brook to MEZAME NEW YORK in less than two weeks. He will be performing a solo and collaborative set with new age luminary Laraaji in a massive cathedral in Manhattan. 

BUY TICKETS

The following passage is from a recent article from In-Sheep's Clothing:
A pioneer in the '80s ambient music movement, Canadian composer-guitarist Michael Brook worked closely with Brian Eno, Jon Hassell, and Daniel Lanois on a number of foundational albums that readers of this site are well acquainted with: Vernal Equinox, Fourth World Vol. 1 – Possible Musics, Dream Theory in Malaya, Ambient 4 (On Land), Power Spot, the list goes on… In 1985, Brook released his first solo album with the help of Eno and Lanois — Hybrid showcased Brook's unique sense for sound treatment and drones utilizing field recordings of marshes, ponds, and insects to create immersive soundscapes alongside his signature “Infinite Guitar,” a sitar-like instrument that he created by modifying a cheap '80s Tokai Stratocaster.
 
In the years following his debut, Brook was signed to Eno's label and management company Opal, toured extensively with Jon Hassell, John Cale, David Sylvian and Robert Fripp, and became a sought-after producer working on acclaimed albums by world music giants Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan (Pakistan), Youssou N'Dour (Senegal), and Cheb Khaled (Algeria). His 1992 album on 4AD Cobalt Blue remains a lost gem from the “second wave” of ambient music featuring a world of influences from blues, Indian music, soundtracks, rock, and even pop. Brook remembers the album's initially muted reception: “The music press didn't really cover music that was hard to put in a genre. So initially, I really didn't know what the perception was—it felt like a guitar crying in the wilderness.”

Michael Brook and Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan

The Venue

St. Bartholomew's Church, Manhattan

Tickets for this event start at $40 (all-in pricing). The concert is also included with a full MEZAME Festival Pass.
[Learn more → MEZAME NEW YORK] 

TICKETS

 

350 Fifth Avenue
New York, NY 10118, United States