UID:417 | 2026-09-15 | "The Graduate Center" <gcevents@gc.cuny.edu> | The Season Begins! American Scoundrel / Oscar-Winning Short Film

Our new season starts next week with a discussion of the acclaimed new biography of Roy Cohn, American Scoundrel. Reserve today to join us in person or online!

Wednesday, September 23, 6:30 p.m.
American Scoundrel:
Roy Cohn's Dark Journey from Joe McCarthy to Donald Trump
Kai Bird and Susan Goldmark in Conversation with Ken Auletta
FREE; RESERVE NOW

In-person and online event

From Kai Bird, Pulitzer Prize-winning co-author of American Prometheus (inspiration for the movie Oppenheimer) and executive director of the Leon Levy Center for Biography, comes this biography of lawyer and political fixer Roy Cohn. Cohn was a player in a startling number of history-shaping events — he was chief counsel to Senator Joseph McCarthy during the “Red Scare,” a legal hired gun for Mafia bosses, and an informal adviser to Richard Nixon. Perhaps most consequentially, he mentored the young Donald Trump, who emulated Cohn’s style and philosophies. Years after his death from AIDS-related complications, Cohn was depicted as a main character in Tony Kushner’s play Angels in America. Bird and co-author Susan Goldmark, chief researcher on the project, speak about the new book and Cohn’s continuing influence with Ken Auletta, author of bestselling books and longtime writer of the Annals of Communication for The New Yorker.

Presented with the Leon Levy Center for Biography.

Coming soon: Join us for a screening and a discussion with the filmmakers of this Academy Award-winning short. Reserve now!

Wednesday, September 30, 6:30 p.m.
Oscar-Winning Short Film, Two People Exchanging Saliva:
Screening and Discussion
FREE; RESERVE NOW

In-person only event

As Natalie Musteata (Ph.D. ’19, Art History) worked on her dissertation, she and her partner spent their weekends writing movie scripts. The result was the satirical absurdist film Two People Exchanging Saliva, for which she and Alexandre Singh won an Academy Award for Best Live Action Short last year. Set in a dystopian Paris where kissing is outlawed and transactions are completed through slaps to the face, the film follows Angine, a discontented woman whose fascination with a playful salesgirl draws suspicion from a jealous colleague. The 36-minute French-language short examines themes of repression, desire, and surveillance. At the Oscars, in a moment of breathless surprise, co-writer and co-director Musteata thanked the Academy “for supporting a film that is weird and that is queer and that is made by a majority of women.”

After a screening, Musteata joins in conversation with Singh, co-filmmaker and visual artist; Claire Bishop, presidential professor of Art History, CUNY Graduate Center; and Elizabeth Alsop, coordinator and faculty, Film and Media Cultures, CUNY Graduate Center.

Presented with the Certificate Program in Film and Media Cultures, the Ph.D. Program in Art History, and the Center for the Humanities.

View the Fall 2026 Schedule