UID:421 | 2026-09-15 | "Wave Farm" <info@wavefarm.org> | Open Call: 2027 Research and Production Program, Workshops in Catskill

Transmission Art & Spatial Sound Residencies, Research & Community Engagement Fellowships, plus workshops in Catskill open for registration!
View this email in your browser

Open Call: 
Research and Production Program

Wave Farm welcomes proposals from artists, researchers, and tinkerers for up to 6 open call research and production opportunities in 2027.

The transmission art residency supports the development of new transmission artwork. The spatial sound residency specifically supports the development of transmission artwork for a spatial sound environment. The fellowship program offers two different tracks: research and community engagement. All residents and fellows will have the opportunity to engage with Wave Farm Radio: WGXC 90.7-FM.

Apply by December 1, 2026 at 11:59 p.m. EST.
 

Application and Guidelines

Visit the link above for the application form, program specifics, eligibility guidelines, as well as information about the review process, workspace, and accommodations.
 

Upcoming Workshops

Precipitation Sounding Sound Absorbers with Cal Fish
October 18, 2026: 12pm - 4pm
WGXC Catskill Studio, Catskill, NY

In this workshop, participants will use fabric, foam, and electronics to create sounding sound absorbers. These soft objects emit & absorb the sounds of their environment and can be used as cozy sounding pillows. Each participant will make their own sounding sound absorber with fabric and sound recordings of their choosing. More information and registration here.

Pocket Portals and Oracle Antennas with Natan Diacon-Furtado + Fun Stuff
November 7, 2026: 12pm- 4pm
WGXC Catskill Studio, Catskill, NY

In this workshop at the WGXC Catskill Studio, participants will assemble their own pocket sized Community Portal transmission instruments for ancestral play and communication, inspired by ghost boxes, electronic spirit communication, and water and listening-based knowledge practices across the artist Natan Diacon-Furtado’s own Quaker, Sephardic Jewish, West African, Native Brazilian, settler, arrivant, and Indigenous ancestries. Sounds and messages received through these instruments during the workshop will be recorded and broadcast on WGXC as a collaborative sound collage. More information and registration here.

Soil Microphones: Listening Through the Ground with Chloe Alexandra Thompson
December 13, 2026: 12pm - 4pm
WGXC Catskill Studio, Catskill, NY

This hands-on workshop explores soil as a medium for listening, transmission, and vibration. Participants will build simple soil microphones using piezoelectric contact microphones coupled to metal rods and plates, creating inexpensive instruments for hearing vibrations that travel through earth, plants, stones, roots, and other materials. More information and registration here.

These programs are made possible, in part, by the The Oliver S. and Jennie R. Donaldson Charitable Trust.

Your Support Makes Wave Farm Possible!

Wave Farm is committed to making the airwaves a participatory medium. We are an international transmission arts organization driven by experimentation with the electromagnetic spectrum. We cultivate creative practices in radio and support artists and nonprofits in their cultural endeavors.

These activities are made possible, in part, from state and federal art grants, foundation support, earned income derived from consulting services and curatorial engagements, and from private, tax-deductible, support from individuals like you.

Support from listeners, attendees, and collaborators provides a critical piece to keeping Wave Farm programs afloat, especially WGXC 90.7-FM Radio for Open Ears, and we are grateful to the many individuals who have shown their generosity past, present, and future.

Support Wave Farm