UID:431 | 2026-09-15 | "Verso Books" <verso@versobooks.com> | Welcome! Here's 20% off your first order

Thank you for supporting radical publishing

Thank you for joining our mailing list!

At this momentous time for global politics, Verso brings you radical voices that challenge capitalism, racism and patriarchy, debate the future of the planet, and work towards real political change.

Buying directly from us is the best way to support our radical publishing.

Use the code WELCOMETOVERSO20 for 20% off your first purchase with us*.

Use Your Discount Code Now

You can also find us on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and TikTok. Come and say hi!

Verso Books

BROWSE THE VERSO CATALOG

Hyperpolitics

The Reverse Centaur's Guide to Life After AI

How to See Like a Machine

Traumatized

Browse All

BROWSE VERSO READING LISTS

Free Palestine: A Verso Reading List

These books offer a history of the occupation, situated in a wider context of anti-colonial struggles around the world.

Capitalism Won't Save the Planet

Radical political solutions to the climate crisis from Andreas Malm, Brett Christophers, Noam Chomsky and more.

10 Books Every Student Should Read!

Classics from across our publishing that should be on everyone's bookshelves.

 

Walter Rodney: a Lightning Rod of Black Working Class Power

Dissecting the impact of slavery and colonialism on the history of international capitalism, and the global meaning of Black Power.

New Works of Theory in Context

Major new editions of theory in conversation with classic Verso texts. 

A Socialist Feminist Reading List

Revolutionary feminist texts, featuring Angela Davis, Nancy Fraser, Sophie Lewis, Legacy Russell, and Vivian Gornick.

David Harvey: Radical Marxist Intellectual

No understanding of Marxist theory is complete without the work of David Harvey.

*Discount code terms and conditions:

Using the discount code WELCOMETOVERSO20 at checkout gives you 20% off your entire first order. It does not apply to Verso Book Club subscriptions. It applies to one-time new purchases and cannot be retrospectively applied to past orders. There is no minimum purchase requirement. There is one use per customer and it cannot be combined with other discounts.  

If you experience any issues please email: orders@versobooks.com (for US and Canada customers) or orders@verso.co.uk (for UK, Europe and Rest of World customers).

No longer want to receive these emails?