UID:434 | 2026-09-15 | "Printed Matter, Inc." <news@printedmatter.org> | 2026 NY Art Book Fair opens next week!

Join us for a joyous Opening Night celebration on Thursday, September 24!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

★ ANNOUNCING: OPENING NIGHT OF NYABF 2026 ★

Photo: Peter Zwolinski/BFA.com

Join us for Opening Night of the 2026 NY Art Book Fair, taking place at MoMA PS1 on September 24 from 7–10 PM. Celebrate NYABF’s 20th Anniversary and get a first look at over 300 international exhibitors, including institutional publishers; antiquarian booksellers presenting rare and historic works; contemporary galleries and nonprofit art spaces; and a thriving community of independent and zine publishers whose experimental spirit continues to redefine the medium. 

This joyous evening features musical performances from SHYBOI and A.B.E.L.A, a bar program by Symone, with a complimentary NYABF signature cocktail by Yola Mezcal, and non-alcoholic offerings from Curious Elixirs and San Benedetto. Opening Night tickets also include unlimited re-entry throughout the Fair weekend. Come celebrate this extra special anniversary Fair with us!

This year, we’re excited to launch Special Collection (2026), a limited-edition artwork by Sara Yukiko that celebrates the joy of collecting. The first 750 guests of Opening Night will receive a complimentary copy of Special Collection, additional copies will be available for purchase at Printed Matter’s booth (B) beginning Friday. Learn more about Sara’s practice alongside more artist features by Art21 below!

NYABF TICKETS

NYABF INFO

In the lead-up to NYABF, we’ve partnered with Art21 to feature a few of the many incredible artists who make NY Art Book Fair what it is. Learn more about Sara Yukiko, our NYABF 2026 Ticket Edition artist; Joey Chriqui and Saad Khan, Directors of Khajistan and recent recipients of Printed Matter’s Publisher Work Grant; and Alejandro Cartagena of Los Sumergidos, who has been exhibiting at the Fair since 2021. All of these artists and many more will be featured at the 2026 NY Art Book Fair!

2026 NY ART BOOK FAIR STAFF

Maia Asshaq — Director of Fairs & Editions
Sanjana Iyer — Fairs & Editions Coordinator
sgp — Fairs & Editions Associate  
Claire Dauge-Roth — Head of Exhibitor Services
Camila Pernisco – Head of Visitor Services
Mallie Sanford — Head of Installation
Emmy Catedral – Organizer of The Classroom
Elijah Jackson – The Classroom Assistant
Lydo Le – Stage Curator
Kathleen Sleboda and Christopher Sleboda – Head of Design & Print Production
Chloe Luterman – Fairs Intern

Support
Printed Matter thanks its current funders: The A G Foundation, The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, Cowles Charitable Trust, The David Rockefeller Fund*, The Fox Aarons Foundation, Frances and Benjamin Benenson Foundation, the Helen Frankenthaler Foundation*, The Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation, The Milton and Sally Avery Arts Foundation, Pat Steir Foundation, Wagner Foundation, Walter and Karla Goldschmidt Foundation, The Windfall Fund, the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs, and the New York State Council on the Arts. We are also grateful to the Printed Matter Board of Directors, our NYABF Committee, our Members, and individuals worldwide for their support. For a complete list of our supporters, or to make a tax-deductible contribution, please visit printedmatter.org/support.

*Courtesy of The Collaborative Arts Network New York (CANNY) 

Special Thanks

Printed Matter would like to extend deep gratitude to the entire dedicated staff of MoMA PS1. We are especially grateful to Jeffrey Akwei, Philip Brand, Connie Butler, Gillian Burz, Andrew Cone, Lauren DiLoreto, Molly Kurzius, Jack Radley, Nick Scavo, Daniel Schaeffer, Zachary Taube, Aimes Vasquez, Richard Wilson, and DeVonn Francis and the team at Symone for their attention and support during this production. Special thanks to Emmy Catedral, Elijah Jackson, and Lydo Le. Printed Matter is deeply thankful to Nike and the members of our NYABF Committee for their support of the Volume Grant and to Are.na for their contribution to the Shannon Michael Cane Award. Thank you to the Shannon Michael Cane Award committee and to the Volume Grant committee; Neta Bomani, Sarah Elawad, and Leila Louhaichy. Special thanks to artist Sara Yukiko, for her generous contributions to Printed Matter's ticket edition. Thank you to our Fair partners and in-kind sponsors. A very special thanks to Printed Matter's Board of Directors for their participation and support.   

The NYABF Team extends special thanks to the entire staff of Printed Matter for their valuable support in this production.  

Printed Matter, Inc.

Printed Matter, Inc. is an independent 501(c)3 non-profit organization founded in 1976 by artists and art workers with the mission to foster the distribution, understanding, and appreciation of artists’ books and related artists’ publications.

The 2026 NY Art Book Fair is generously supported by:

 

🎈 A refreshed Membership Program for our 50th year 🎈

As Printed Matter celebrates its 50th Anniversary and 20th NY Art Book Fair, we’ve given our Membership Program a little makeover—with more benefits and ways to stay involved. You’ve been browsing the stacks. You’ve been coming to the Fairs. You’ve probably left with more books than you intended to. The natural next step is to become a Member.

Check out our member perks, like free Fair entry to NYABF and click here to sign up!

 

Browse our catalog   ●   Become a member   ●   Make a donation

Printed Matter, Inc.
Printed Matter, Inc. is an independent 501(c)3 non-profit organization founded in 1976 by artists and art workers with the mission to foster the appreciation, dissemination, and understanding of artists’ books and other artists’ publications.

Printed Matter, Inc.

231 11th Avenue

New York, NY 10001

www.printedmatter.org

www.pmabf.org

T: 212 925 0325

Printed Matter’s bookstore is wheelchair accessible.