UID:440 | 2026-09-16 | "Anthology Film Archives" <info@anthologyfilmarchives.org> | This Week at AFA: Cinema of Demolition & Destruction; Jennifer Reeves; Jackie Raynal Presents; Valentin Noujaïm; Jason Fulford Book Event & EC

This Friday marks the beginning of a conceptually rich weeklong series brought to Anthology by co-programmers Mako Fukata and Sam Schiffer. “Rubble on Screen: the Cinema of Demolition and Destruction” assembles a range of documentaries, narrative films, experimental works and performance documentation from China, Spain, Palestine, the U.S. and beyond. These works explore the spectacle of rubble in contexts of war, displacement and urban renewal, posing questions on the human costs of infrastructural destruction and the ideological deployment of its depiction.

Also opening this Friday is a mini-retrospective of the acclaimed film artist Jennifer Reeves, beginning with a special 16mm and digital dual projection of her 2025 work THE GLORIA OF YOUR IMAGINATION – a collage film constructed in part from psychotherapy sessions filmed as training material in 1964. Over the weekend, we’ll also screen the single-projector digital version of GLORIA, along with Reeves’s earlier dual-projection piece WHEN IT WAS BLUE and a short film program.

Jackie Raynal Presents continues tonight and tomorrow, with Raynal here in person. Tonight’s programs feature Raynal’s films GOUGNETTE and HOTEL NEW YORK, along with short films by and about Éric Rohmer, with whom she worked frequently. And tomorrow, we’ll be screening Jim Jarmusch’s debut feature, PERMANENT VACATION (on 35mm!) — which Raynal championed as programmer of Bleecker Street Cinema, and Jacques Rozier’s PAPARAZZI.

On Tuesday, we’ll present the first of two screenings – both programmed by Yasmina Price — bringing the work of Lebanese/Egyptian-French filmmaker Valentin Noujaïm together with a range of likeminded filmmakers.

And lastly, tomorrow, we’ll host a special book release event for Jason Fulford’s new photo book “Frozen Featues.” Books will be available for purchase at the event, which features a rare screening of John Smith’s SLOW GLASS, preceded by Marie Menken’s GO! GO! GO!, both on 16mm.

Plus, an Essential Cinema screening Carl Th. Dreyer’s DAY OF WRATH!

STILL LIFE (2006)

RUBBLE ON SCREEN: THE CINEMA OF DEMOLITION AND DESTRUCTION
September 18 – 24
If there is one defining image of modern war, it is the pile of rubble. The spectacular nature of conflict, and its near constant presence on our screens, raises urgent questions about how destruction is depicted in popular visual media. This is particularly true within the moving image, where imagery of destruction has fascinated audiences since the cinema’s inception, beginning with the Lumière brothers’ 1895 film DEMOLITION D’UN MUR, in which four men demolish a brick wall, only for the footage to be reversed, causing the wall to reconstruct itself.

What makes cinematic destruction so captivating may be its real-time recording of the event itself. There are also political and social implications of such a real-time moving image. Per Siegfried Kracauer, the movies were uniquely suited to reveal matters of chance, a fortuitousness which is exemplified in cinema’s depiction of the street, a site where, according to Kracauer, “the accidental prevails over the providential.” This attunement to the contingent illustrates cinema’s ability to short circuit manufactured narratives, which in the context of demolition cinema, are often spoken in the official language of “urban renewal.” It is a site where meaning flows from the material world to the camera and then to the spectator, enabling filmmakers to illustrate the complex dynamics of civilization through acts of demolition and deconstruction.

This series adopts an inquisitive gaze on the depiction of material demolition and destruction across time, culture, and geography. The seven programs are organized thematically, with some pairings reflecting a shared ethos. What are the human costs of destruction? Is there a qualitative difference between “demolition” and “destruction” on screen? How and why are these images deployed, and by whom? By posing these questions, the series seeks to expand our understanding of the moving image as both an indexical medium and a site of meaning-making.

Guest-programmed by Mako Fukata and Sam Schiffer, who wrote the introduction above.

Special thanks to Dominic Angerame; Brian Belovarac (Janus Films); Jacob Burckhardt; Bob Hunter (Icarus Films); Rebecca Cleman, Karl McCool, and Jooyoung Park (EAI); Hanan Coumal (LUX); Jonathan Howell (Big World Pictures); Brett Kashmere & Zachary Epcar (Canyon Cinema); Kristin MacDonough & Emily Martin (VDB); Alba Manzanas Sanchez & Samir Mechbal (Mediapro Studio Distribution); Edward McCarry (Cinema Guild); Julia Petrocelli (Film-Makers’ Coop); Tikkun Olam Productions; and Gerald Weber (sixpack).

PROGRAM 1: FICTIONALIZING REALITY
Documenting the demolition of homes to make way for the M11 highway in East London, John Smith argues that BLIGHT “exploits the ambiguities of its material to produce new meanings and metaphors, fictionalizing reality through framing and editing strategies.” Though the houses are torn down and the residents move away, Smith also consecrates BLIGHT as an archive of visual and oral memory for the residents. Whereas BLIGHT is unambiguous in its representation of antipathy toward the destruction of a community, José Luis Guerín’s EN CONSTRUCCIÓN navigates the nuanced attitudes of people affected by infrastructural changes in a Barcelona neighborhood. In long-takes of (sometimes staged) interactions and crumbling walls, Guerín and his team of Pompeu Fabra University students capture a community being buried under the promise of a better future.

José Luis Guerín
WORK IN PROGRESS / EN CONSTRUCCIÓN
2001, 127 min, 35mm-to-digital. In Spanish & Catalan with English subtitles.

Preceded by:
John Smith BLIGHT 1994-96, 14 min, 16mm-to-digital. Collaboration with Jocelyn Pook.

Total running time: ca. 145 min.
Fri, Sept 18 at 7:00.

SPLITTING

PROGRAM 2: PERFORMANCE AND REBELLION
At the end of SPLITTING, a 1974 film recording of a building “cut” radical sculptor and architect Gordon Matta-Clark made to an abandoned family home in suburban New Jersey, the audience is told that the work was “demolished for urban ‘renewal’.” SPLITTING thus becomes an afterimage of a site-specific and self-destructive artistic thesis, but one that is nonetheless arresting in its visual expressiveness and solemn beauty. Conversely, in MEISHI STREET, Zhang Jinli fights tooth and nail to save his restaurant from demolition in preparation for the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Given a digital video camera by U-teque Collective member Ou Ning to document his efforts, Zhang turns the lens on himself as he makes and hangs protest banners outside his restaurant and visits neighbors, projecting the voice of his Dazhalan neighborhood into a condemned future.

Ou Ning
MEISHI STREET
2006, 85 min, digital. In Mandarin with English subtitles.

Preceded by:
Gordon Matta-Clark SPLITTING 1974, 11 min, Super-8mm-to-digital, silent

Total running time: ca. 100 min.
Sat, Sept 19 at 5:30.
 
PROGRAM 3: STATE POWER
Rather than engendering solidarity and empathy through the depiction of destruction of social and material Palestinian life in the present tense, Cynthia Madansky’s STILL LIFE chooses instead to take spectators on a tour of the Occupied Territories after the bulldozers have rumbled through and the bombs have fallen. Hanging its power on aftermath, STILL LIFE reaches instead for a set of festering implications and associations triggered via images, musical composition, and spoken questions. Like many of the other films in this series, NO OTHER LAND preserves in the visual archive what will likely be lost. Shot over the course of five years and by a collective of four directors from Palestine and Israel, NO OTHER LAND shocks in its immediacy and palpable danger as an SOS call from Masafer Yatta, a front line of the Palestinian struggle.

Yuval Abraham, Basel Adra, Hamdan Ballal, and Rachel Szor
NO OTHER LAND
2024, 92 min, DCP. In Arabic, English, and Hebrew with English subtitles.

Preceded by:
Cynthia Madansky STILL LIFE 2004, 15 min, Super-8mm-to-digital. Sound design by Zeena Parkins.

Total running time: ca. 110 min.
Sat, Sept 19 at 8:00 and Wed, Sept 23 at 6:30.

PROGRAM 4: IN VANDA’S ROOM
Pedro Costa
IN VANDA’S ROOM / NO QUARTO DA VANDA
2000, 171 min, DCP. In Portuguese with English subtitles.
The second in his Fontainhas trilogy, IN VANDA’S ROOM follows heroin addict Vanda Duarte and a group of struggling slum dwellers as they try to make a life amid the demolition of their Lisbon neighborhood. Between Vanda’s raucous coughing fits and the clicks of her butane lighter, Costa’s extreme long takes, filmed in austere digital video, capture the sound of her built environs collapsing around her. Unlike the Barcelona neighborhood in EN CONSTRUCCIÓN, though, Fontainhas was wiped from the map by city officials, irredeemable in the eyes of the state, its inhabitants moved elsewhere. Today, it no longer stands, but remains embalmed in the images of Costa’s film.

IN VANDA’S ROOM probes the limit of what cinema is and is capable of, not only in its content, which is bleak and harrowing to be sure, but in its form. Like many films in this series, it is uninterested in the distinction between fiction and documentary, choosing instead to capture life in its essence by whatever means necessary. André Bazin wrote that photography, and by extension cinema, satisfied the deep need that man had for an image that was not an approximation, but was the object itself, “freed from the conditions of time and space that govern it.” Sometimes, truth must be freed from the conditions of the objectively real: Costa proclaimed that he filmed some scenes multiple times until they “became fluidly represented and detached of any melodramatic tone.” Often, truth requires some coaxing.
Sun, Sept 20 at 4:15 and Thurs, Sept 24 at 7:00.

DEMOLITION

PROGRAM 5: DESTROYED VISION
Using a waist-high camera pointed at the ground and a drone that follows above, Nadav Assor’s GROUND EFFECT takes its name from the phenomenon by which drones and helicopters, in the process of mapping the environment, alter the landscape by displacing the ground’s surface. The objective visual recording thus becomes subjective in its effect on the land. Merging the camera footage into one, Assor points out the unique flaws and irreconcilability of objective and subjective ways of perceiving. Likewise, J.P. Sniadecki’s DEMOLITION / CHAIQIAN, produced in association with the Harvard Sensory Ethnography Lab, shakes loose a firm cinematic sense of perception. Shot over the course of three weeks and following a group of migrant demolition workers and city dwellers in Chengdu, China, DEMOLITION / CHAIQIAN imbues heavy demolition equipment with awkwardness and humor and turns cameras on cameras, all while a city is disappearing underfoot amidst a sonic tank of grinding metal, bursting concrete, and electronic beeps. Conversely, in Viktoria Schmid’s W O W (KODAK), structures reappear as demolished portions of the Rochester Kodak factory emerge from towering dust clouds, rhyming with the Lumière brothers’ DEMOLITION D’UN MUR made over a century prior.

J.P. Sniadecki
DEMOLITION / CHAIQIAN / 拆·迁
2008, 62 min, DCP. In Mandarin and Sichuanese with English subtitles.

Preceded by:
Viktoria Schmid W O W (KODAK) 2018, 2 min, 35mm-to-DCP
Nadav Assor GROUND EFFECT 2016, 14 min, digital

Total running time: ca. 85 min.
Sun, Sept 20 at 8:00 and Tues, Sept 22 at 8:30.

PROGRAM 6: STILL LIFE
Jia Zhangke
STILL LIFE / 三峡好人
2006, 111 min, DCP. In Mandarin, Jin, and Sichuanese with English subtitles.
If Jia Zhangke’s breakout film PLATFORM (2000) was about the destruction of China’s social fabric as it transitioned from Mao to Deng Xiaoping, then Jia’s 2006 Golden Lion winner STILL LIFE focuses on the physical destruction of the built environment as the country ventures through another epochal shift. Like Ou Ning’s MEISHI STREET, STILL LIFE is firmly located during what Western observers routinely note as the era of a “rising China.” A few years after the country’s admittance to the WTO, a couple years before Beijing hosted the 2008 Olympics, and during a time of rising GDP, STILL LIFE asks, in literal terms, whether a rising tide indeed lifts all boats. Shot on location in Fengjie, a town along the Yangtze River in central China, the film centers on two people as they search for their spouses in the city, slowly being demolished to make way for the Three Gorges Dam. Slated to be flooded by the dam’s reservoir, the town is replete with hand painted red lines on the sides of buildings that indicate the imminent water levels, offering a stark warning for those below the line to get out while they can. Like Pedro Costa’s IN VANDA’S ROOM, STILL LIFE is filmed on digital video, lending it not only a documentary aesthetic (emblematic of the Urban Generation of Chinese independent filmmakers at the time), but one of uncanny immediacy. Jia, embracing the xianchang spirit of on-the-ground filmmaking, has argued that the documentarian must allow themself to be “seared” by the immediate present. The traces of the people and buildings of Fengjie, though now relocated and demolished, respectively, become irrevocably imprinted on STILL LIFE and its maker.
Mon, Sept 21 at 7:00 and Wed, Sept 23 at 9:00.

TIME STEPPING

PROGRAM 7: SHORT FILMS
The final program of the series is comprised of shorts that condense the myriad affects elucidated by the preceding works. Here, the wrecking ball and excavator become central players as humans largely exit the drama, leaving inanimate objects the task of carrying high tragedy and comedy. In Milèna Trivier’s elegiac 12 AUGUST 2002, the filmmaker frames the demolition of a brick gable from below and against the sky, a towering sentinel pummeled, its pieces sold for scrap. Conversely, in Jacob Burckhardt’s playful JawwZZZ, bright orange excavators lose their menace and become bumbling figures as they devour concrete and shift twisted metal, construction crews hosing down the creatures as zookeepers would elephants. Critique remains pointed though in Dominic Angerame’s IN THE COURSE OF HUMAN EVENTS, an anti-city symphony that, instead of celebrating the triumphs of urban technological progress, explores the remnants of de-industrialization in a black and white moonscape bereft of human presence.

William Raban TIME STEPPING 1974, 19 min, 16mm-to-digital
Dominic Angerame IN THE COURSE OF HUMAN EVENTS 1997, 23 min, 16mm
Miléna Trivier 12 AUGUST 2002 2002, 10 min, video. Voiceover by John Berger.
Anna Thew LFMC DEMOLITION 2004, 9 min, 16mm-to-digital
Jacob Burckhardt JawwZZZ 2024, 15 min, digital. Soundtrack by Lary 7.
Louis Lumière & Auguste Lumière DEMOLITION OF A WALL / DÉMOLITION D’UN MUR 1895, 1.5 min, 35mm-to-DCP

Total running time: ca. 85 min.
Tues, Sept 22 at 6:30.

THE GLORIA OF YOUR IMAGINATION

JENNIFER REEVES
September 18 – 20
Anthology welcomes film artist Jennifer Reeves for a weekend of screenings encompassing her most recent work – the extraordinary THE GLORIA OF YOUR IMAGINATION (screening in both double- and single-screen versions) – as well as the earlier dual-projection piece, WHEN IT WAS BLUE, and a short film program encompassing 1996’s CHRONIC (Reeves’s early, unflinching portrait of mental health struggles, a theme revisited in GLORIA), alongside rarely seen videos, and a sneak-peek of a work-in-progress.

“Reeves, who does not conceal her admiration for Brakhage, stands firmly on the side of those for whom the art of filmmaking involves the texture and eventual manipulation of 16mm stock…. Structurally, Reeves has held a daring position – at the boundaries between several forms of sexuality…; pushing the limit between sanity, obsessional memories, private madness and societal follies; at the intersection between psychological disorders, cultural artifacts and the process of obscuring/enlarging one’s vision and consciousness by accumulating layers of images on one strip of film.” –Bérénice Reynaud, SENSES OF CINEMA

THE GLORIA OF YOUR IMAGINATION
2024/25, 98 min, 16mm + DCP
“In 1964, an enterprising psychologist (Dr. Everett Shostrom) persuaded a 30-year-old waitress and single mother, to take part in filmed psychotherapy sessions, with three of the most influential psychologists of the 20th century. The resulting series, THREE APPROACHES TO PSYCHOTHERAPY (1965), was primary training material in the field for decades. With the immersive double projection of THE GLORIA OF YOUR IMAGINATION, Reeves creates an intricate, superimposed montage of Gloria’s unguarded sessions with numerous film artifacts of her lifetime: newsreels, home movies, commercials, a beauty pageant, Cold War propaganda, and educational films. The result sees viewers absorbing the culture of that era directly through Reeves’s mix of intimate storytelling and sense of curiosity.” –WEXNER CENTER FOR THE ARTS
Fri, Sept 18 at 7:30, Sat, Sept 19 at 5:15, and Sun, Sept 20 at 7:45. The screening on Fri, Sept 18 will involve 16mm + digital dual projection; the screenings on Sat & Sun, Sept 19 & 20 will be of the single-channel DCP version of the film.

WHEN IT WAS BLUE

WHEN IT WAS BLUE
2009, 58 min, 16mm dual projection
WHEN IT WAS BLUE rejoices in the splendor of nature as the camera eye traverses land and sea in a montage of diverse ecosystems from the Americas to Iceland and New Zealand. Reeves creates colorful, organic textures and forms, inspired by elements of the natural world, using an array of direct-on-film techniques. This abstract imagery is superimposed upon wildlife footage, generating depth while merging the powerful intricacies of nature with an artist’s reverence for it. With her Bolex, Reeves hurries to “capture” the natural world before it vanishes. An original score by Reeves’s collaborator, composer and performer Skúli Sverrisson, transports the audience to a realm at once haunting, urgent, and rapturous.
Sat, Sept 19 at 8:15.

SHORT FILM PROGRAM
This program is anchored by the 1996 film CHRONIC, which combines documentary and found footage with scripted scenes (featuring Reeves herself, as well as filmmakers Joe Gibbons, Jeannie Liotta, and Joel Schlemowitz) to form an experimental narrative about a young woman who began mutilating herself as a girl to cope with a traumatic mid-western girlhood. The program also includes early 16mm works like TASTE IT NINE TIMES and THE GIRL’S NERVY, video pieces such as SKINNY TEETH and the previously unseen MOTHERS’ DAY, and an excerpt from a work-in-progress.

TRAINS ARE FOR DREAMING 2009, 7 min, 16mm
CHRONIC 1996, 37.5 min, 16mm
FEAR OF BLUSHING 2001, 5.5 min, 16mm
TASTE IT NINE TIMES 1992, 5.5 min, 16mm
THE GIRL’S NERVY 1995, 5 min, 16mm
SKINNY TEETH 2001, 7 min, VHS-to-digital
[work-in-progress] (CELIA, DID YOU KNOW?) 2 min, video
MOTHER’S DAY 1988, 5 min, video

Total running time: ca. 80 min.
Sun, Sept 20 at 5:15.

HOTEL NEW YORK

JACKIE RAYNAL PRESENTS
September 15 – 17
This fall, Anthology welcomes back our dear friend Jackie Raynal, who will be making a long-overdue visit back to New York, the city where she lived for many years, made several of her most memorable films, and where she programmed the legendary Bleecker Street and Carnegie Hall Cinemas throughout the 1970s-80s. Before relocating to NYC in 1974, Raynal had served as an actress and editor for filmmakers including Eric Rohmer, Jean-Daniel Pollet, Philippe Garrel, Ulrike Ottinger, and others; co-founded the radical filmmaking collective the Zanzibar Group; and soon began making films herself, such as her 1968 feature film, DEUX FOIS.

During her visit in September, Raynal will be here in person for three evenings, to present several of her own films – including DEUX FOIS and the rarely screened documentary shorts MY LAST INTERVIEW WITH ÉRIC ROHMER (2010) and GOUGNETTE (2008) – as well as films she admires and/or presented during her time as a programmer (such as Jim Jarmusch’s debut feature, PERMANENT VACATION).

Special thanks to Jackie Raynal; Brian Belovarac (Janus Films); Tomaž Burlin (Collectif Jeune Cinema); Nicole Fernandez Ferrer (Centre Audiovisuel Simone de Beauvoir); and Bob Hunter (Icarus Films).

PROGRAM 2:
Jackie Raynal
MY LAST INTERVIEW WITH ÉRIC ROHMER / MA DERNIÈRE INTERVIEW AVEC ÉRIC ROHMER
2010, 18 min, digital
In 2009, just months before he passed away at the age of 89, Raynal recorded an interview with the great filmmaker Éric Rohmer, for whom she had served as an editor on several films, including SUZANNE’S CAREER (1963), THE BAKERY GIRL OF MONCEAU (1963), and LA COLLECTIONNEUSE (1967). This is an invaluable record of Rohmer and of his longstanding collaboration with Raynal.

Jackie Raynal
GOUGNETTE
2008, 44 min, digital
“GOUGNETTE (‘disheveled’ in the Camargue dialect) is a tribute to the memory of my parents (who died in 1983 and 1995) – Resistance fighters during World War II and Communists in the South of France. Through filmed and audio interviews with my parents and people who knew them – recorded between 1979 and 2005 – this film retraces their lives within the context of their political activism.” –Jackie Raynal

Total running time: ca. 65 min.
Wed, Sept 16 at 6:30.

PROGRAM 3:
Jackie Raynal
HOTEL NEW YORK
1984, 52 min, 16mm-to-DCP. With Jackie Raynal, Sid Geffen, Suzanne Fenn, and Gary Indiana.
“HOTEL NEW YORK can be seen as a description of a fight; the fight of an immigrant with her new city and the fight of a filmmaker with her desire to make films within precarious boundaries. In HOTEL NEW YORK Jackie Raynal plays and wins.” –CAHIERS DU CINÉMA

“One day in New York, I took my linen to a small Chinese laundry. Then I forgot it for a few weeks. When I went back, the laundry wasn’t there anymore, the building had been demolished! I was haunted by the thought of my bedsheets gone forever with the laundry. This experience was the starting point for the NEW YORK HOTEL script. I wanted to write and make this film to show how everything is transient over there. Things change all the time and are immediately replaced, much quicker than in Europe. The story stemmed from my own experience and impressions as a foreigner. It’s a comedy-drama.” –Jackie Raynal, LIBÉRATION

Preceded by:
Éric Rohmer
SIX IN PARIS / PARIS VU PAR…: PLACE DE L’ÉTOILE
1965, 16 min, 35mm-to-DCP. In French with English subtitles.
Jackie Raynal was the editor on all of the short films that comprise the French New Wave omnibus film SIX IN PARIS, each of which focuses on a single Paris neighborhood. Arguably the highlight of the collection, Rohmer’s PLACE DE L’ÉTOILE spins a silent-comedy-like tale in and around the chaotic roundabout anchored by the Arc de Triomphe.

“A film that is both perfect and unusual in form, closed in on itself, and that seems to have nothing to say, but which actually says everything. A pure diamond.” –Luc Moullet

Total running time: ca. 75 min.
Wed, Sept 16 at 8:30.

PERMANENT VACATION

PROGRAM 4:
Jim Jarmusch
PERMANENT VACATION
1980, 75 min, 35mm
During her years running and programming the legendary Bleecker Street Cinema, Jackie Raynal discovered or premiered countless now-beloved films, not least of which was Jim Jarmusch’s debut feature, PERMANENT VACATION. For this special screening, Raynal will present the film in person, and speak about her early advocacy of Jarmusch’s work.

“Jim Jarmusch’s first feature displays the first hints of the deadpan, minimalist-cool style that he would refine in his breakthrough STRANGER THAN PARADISE (1987). Young, alienated hipster Aloysius Christopher Parker (Chris Parker) wanders an eerily vacant Manhattan searching for a sense of meaning while encountering an array of idiosyncratic characters. Downtown fixtures Sara Driver, Eric Mitchell, and John Lurie (who composed the film’s score) are among the eccentrics and vagabonds populating this existential urban odyssey.” –CRITERION

Preceded by:
Jacques Rozier
PAPARAZZI
1964, 23 min, 16mm-to-DCP. In French with English subtitles.
“One of two documentaries Jacques Rozier made chronicling the making of Jean-Luc Godard’s CONTEMPT, PAPARAZZI focuses on the intense media frenzy that accompanied star Brigitte Bardot’s every move, offering a revealing look at the nature of modern celebrity culture.” –CRITERION

Total running time: ca. 105 min.
Thurs, Sept 17 at 7:00.

OCEANIA

VALENTIN NOUJAÏM – IN RELATION
September 22 & 23
Valentin Noujaïm’s moving image practice slips between the formal seams of genre and method, the cracks of disappeared histories and communities, the hazy bifurcations of dystopic nightmares and utopic reveries, the scales of monumental narratives and intimate encounters. Born in France to Lebanese and Egyptian parents, the artist and filmmaker defies and dissembles reigning systems of power to explore how they act on bodies and psyches. His image-making investigates how colonization, gentrification and hierarchies of class, race, gender, and sexuality shape historical and contemporary narratives. Noujaïm embroiders his audiovisual experiments as an intergenerational witnessing, preoccupied with what is left behind and what is carried forward in the face of collapse.

“Valentin Noujaïm – In Relation” is a two-evening program of short films. Each takes a work by Noujaïm as an invitation to gather a constellation of co-conspirators, fellow travelers and kindred spirits.

Program 1, “Veiled Struggles: Queerness, Colonialism, and Memory”, begins with Noujaïm’s OCEANIA (2024) to guide a sequence of films negotiating the secrecies and exposures of queer life, the precarity and interdependence of familial bonds, and how to survive loss. Richard Fung’s SEA IN THE BLOOD (2000) and Mohammed Soueid’s CINEMA FOUAD (1994) carry the triptych across France, Trinidad, and Lebanon, carving out a political cartography warped by colonization and war. Through their generosity, the three films allow for the co-existence of grief, eroticism, and the flux of unsettled identities.

BEFORE SHE FORGETS HELIOPOLIS (2018) roots Program 2, “Re-tellings: What Our Grandmothers Have Known”. Noujaïm turns to his own family as a way into a story of exile and displacement that is at once specific and shared. Six companion films widen the geographic lens to Palestine, Senegal, Jamaica, the U.S., U.K. and Canada. In Program 2, grandmothers teach and tell, they pass down cultural traditions and Indigenous knowledges, they mark the multidirectional passage of time. Razan AlSalah, Jean-Pierre Bekolo, Shenny De Los Ángeles & Amanda Morell (iiritu), Barbara Hammer, Darryl Daley, and Caroline Monnet each in their way honor the elders who are our living archives.

Guest-programmed by Yasmina Price, who wrote the introduction above.

Program 1, on Tue, Sept 22, will be followed by a conversation with writer and curator Adam HajYahia and Yasmina Price.

Program 2, on Wed, Sept 23, will be followed by a conversation with Yasmina Price and a guest to-be-announced.

PROGRAM 1:
VEILED STRUGGLES: QUEERNESS, COLONIALISM, AND MEMORY

Valentin Noujaïm
OCEANIA
2024, 24 min, digital. In French with English subtitles.
Sixteen-year-old Najib luxuriates in his summer days of gaming until his mother informs him of a neighbor’s passing. Taking the keys to their apartment, he quickly discovers an unexpected world of painful questions.

“OCEANIA is an ode to tenderness. To a new generation that carries on our struggles, that seeks to remember whilst also moving forward. A tribute to love, to the dead and martyrs, and to present history being dismantled and destroyed.” –Valentin Noujaïm

Richard Fung
SEA IN THE BLOOD
2000, 26 min, video
“SEA IN THE BLOOD was to be a meditation on race, sexuality and disease, but after working with the material for three years, it was the emotional story that came through. It’s hard to work with such personal material, but in the end the work takes on a life of its own. ‘Richard’ is a character. Because of the subject matter – disease and death – I wanted to avoid sentimentality. I’d like the audience to think as well as feel.” –Richard Fung

Mohammed Soueid
CINEMA FOUAD
1994, 28 min, video. In Arabic with English subtitles.
A documentary on the life and ambitions of a young Lebanese trans woman, Khaled El Kurdi. The video follows her journey from soldier to cabaret dancer, in order to raise funds for her gender-affirming operation. Shot in Beirut, CINEMA FOUAD weaves a complex and multi-layered story of sexuality, identity, and desire, and paints a compelling portrait of its subject.

Total running time: ca. 85 min.
Tue, Sept 22 at 7:00. Followed by a conversation with writer and curator Adam HajYahia and Yasmina Price!

YOULOGY / NO GHOSTS

PROGRAM 2:
RE-TELLING: OUR GRANDMOTHERS HAVE KNOWN

Valentin Noujaïm
BEFORE SHE FORGETS HELIOPOLIS / AVANT D’OUBLIER HELIOPOLIS
2018, 23 min, digital. In French with English subtitles.
“My family have begun to forget their Egyptian roots and, on asking my grandmother Malo to recount the first part of her life in Cairo, I am confronted by the memories of an exiled Arabic woman, lost in a troubled sea of memories, soon to be erased by the passage of time.” –Valentin Noujaïm

Darryl Daley
YOULOGY / NO GHOSTS
2025, 8 min, digital
“YOULOGY / NO GHOSTS explores cyclical motifs of arrival and departure through the artist’s grandmother’s migration to the United Kingdom and her posthumous return to Jamaica, creating a transcendental frame where memory and time merge. In this speculative space, the film navigates beyond the confines of mortality, reimagining a future where inherited stories resist linearity.” –THIRD HORIZON FILM FESTIVAL

Barbara Hammer
OPTIC NERVE
1985, 16 min, 16mm
“[A] powerful personal reflection on family and aging. Hammer employs filmed footage which, through optical printing and editing, is layered and manipulated to create a compelling meditation on her visit to her grandmother in a nursing home. The sense of sight becomes a constantly evolving process of reseeing images retrieved from the past and fused into the eternal present of the projected image. Hammer has lent a new voice to the long tradition of personal meditation in the avant-garde of the American independent cinema.” –John Hanhardt, WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Razan AlSalah
YOUR FATHER WAS BORN 100 YEARS OLD, AND SO WAS THE NAKBA
2017, 7 min, digital. In Arabic with English subtitles.
“She looks down at her virtual ghost marked with an X. ‘If I were walking, I would have found it, even if it’s not here anymore.’ Oum Amin, a Palestinian grandmother, returns to her hometown Haifa through Google Maps Streetview – today, the only way she can see Palestine. The film consists of images from Google Street View accompanied by an imaginary voiceover written by the artist, that of her grandmother who was never able to return to her hometown in Palestine. This invented memory, narrated in voiceover, is nevertheless set in a real colonial context. In this pixelated, stroboscopic landscape, archival images narrating British and Israeli colonization appear.” –Cinéma du Réel

Caroline Monnet
IKWÉ
2009, 5 min, digital. In Cree and French with English subtitles.
“IKWÉ is an experimental film that weaves the narrative of one woman’s (IKWÉ) intimate thoughts with the teachings of her grandmother, the Moon, creating a surreal narrative experience that communicates the power of thoughts and personal reflection. Made by Anishinaabe artist Caroline Monnet, the film reflects the intergenerational transmission of Indigenous knowledge.” –WINNIPEG FILM GROUP / NATIONAL BOARD OF CANADA

Jean-Pierre Bekolo
GRANDMA’S GRAMMAR / LA GRAMMAIRE DE MA GRAND’MERE
1996, 8 min, digital. In French with English subtitles.
“An inherited lesson from Djibril Diop Mambéty’s grandmother is transmitted through Jean-Pierre Bekolo’s chronicle of their conversation. Creating a Pan-African exchange, the Cameroonian Bekolo listens to the Senegalese Mambéty root his cinema in his grandmother’s storytelling – a narrative form of returns and repetitions, of continuation and reinvention.” –Yasmina Price

Shenny De Los Ángeles & Amanda Morell (iiritu)
FLORINDA’S DAUGHTER / HIJA DE FLORINDA
2024, 12 min, digital. In English and Spanish with English subtitles.
“Through a series of black-and-white tableaux, this poetry film follows the journey of Young Naomi in Everglades, Florida. She learns from Florinda, her grandmother, about the ancestral practices of caring for the land and nurturing grief in the face of environmental challenges. As the story unfolds, we grow to understand Florinda’s indigenous teachings of controlled burns and the importance of embracing fire rather than suppressing it. As the prescribed burns ignite from Florinda’s hands, an archival portal is birthed.” –BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC

Total running time: ca. 85 min.
Wed, Sept 23 at 7:00. Followed by a conversation between Yasmina Price and writer, editor, and critic Jessica Lynne!

SLOW GLASS

BOOK RELEASE EVENT!
GO GO GO SLOW
September 17
This evening features a rare screening of John Smith’s SLOW GLASS (1988-91) – which uses the art of glassmaking as a prism to explore themes of memory and transformation – preceded by Marie Menken’s ode to New York City on speed, GO! GO! GO! (1964). Both films utilize layered imagery, in different ways, to alter our perception of time and space. The event celebrates the publication of “Frozen Features”, a new book of photographs by Jason Fulford. For nearly thirty years, Fulford has built a practice on the conviction that meaning lives less inside any single photograph than in the sequence and the things that happen around it – individual pictures forced to rhyme, echo, or collapse into dissonance against their neighbors, across books, exhibitions, publishing, and performance. “Frozen Features” pushes that instinct one step further, into a visual language of layers randomly composed from images made between 1996 and 2026. The results invite us to find the mystical lodged inside the everyday, felt before it’s understood. Fulford will introduce the films, and books will be available for purchase.

For more info about “Frozen Features”, visit:

Marie Menken GO! GO! GO! 1962-64, 12 min, 16mm, silent. Preserved by Anthology Film Archives.
John Smith SLOW GLASS 1988-91, 40 min, 16mm

Total running time: ca. 55 min.
Thurs, Sept 17 at 7:30.

ESSENTIAL CINEMA: DREYER

Carl Th. Dreyer
DAY OF WRATH
In Danish with English subtitles, 1943, 100 min, 35mm
Wed, September 16 at 7:30.

CURRENT PROGRAMMING FROM OUR FRIENDS:
• JEAN-LUC GODARD: UNMADE AND ABANDONED
September 15 – October 15 at L'Alliance New York
Over the course of his phenomenally productive career, Jean-Luc Godard had hundreds of unmade and abandoned projects. By setting a selection of Godard’s completed films in dialogue with others by him and a range of different directors, this program reveals the vast and varied phantom body of unrealized ventures that lie behind or in the intervals in his completed oeuvre and casts in relief his creative process. AFA members can email the membership desk to receive a special discount code for 20% off tickets!

• CLIMATE FILM FESTIVAL NEW YORK: HUMBOLDT USA
September 20 at Regal Essex Crossing Cinema 11
Climate Film Festival presents G. Anthony Svatek’s HUMBOLDT USA, a kaleidoscopic documentary tracing Alexander von Humboldt’s vision of ecological interconnectedness through activists, scientists, and hunters across America. Screening Sunday, September 20 at 1 PM at Regal Essex Crossing, followed by a Q&A with Svatek, moderated by Vox’s Benji Jones.

SCREAMPLAY

COMING SOON:
• TONEY W. MERRITT
September 25 – 27
Anthology is overjoyed to present the first-ever extensive East Coast retrospective of filmmaker Toney W. Merritt. Merritt began his career in the late 1960s, and created films prolifically throughout the 1970s-80s, but it’s only more recently – following a devastating 2020 wildfire that destroyed his studio and archive, and the subsequent preservation of ten of his earlier films by Canyon Cinema and the National Film Preservation Foundation – that his work has begun to attract the latter-day attention it deserves. Merritt’s films are marked by a proliferation of imagery suggesting multiple, fluid, and often contradictory identities, reflective of the experience of a Black artist negotiating a society permeated by prejudice. Structurally, they’re distinguished by a striking proclivity towards loosely associated sketches and fragmentary imagery, while formally they feature innovative, evocative, and often puzzling uses of onscreen text. And through all of this, they explore questions of race, political engagement, and the artist’s role in society in ways that are subtle, slippery, and surprising. Merritt will be here in person to present each screening, with Q&As moderated by Lynne Sachs and other special guests!

• SCREAMPLAY – Theatrical Premiere Run! New Restoration!
September 18 – 24
Edgar Allan (director Rufus Butler Seder) is an aspiring screenwriter who has just come to Hollywood to make it in the movies…only to wind up working as the janitor at a fleabag apartment complex run by the greasy ex-boxer Martin (played by underground film legend George Kuchar). When Edgar begins channeling his frustrations with his kooky neighbors into fodder for his latest screenplay, the vivid murder scenes he writes begin to happen for real. Filmed almost entirely within the confines of the South End Boston loft that was home to Seder's Boston Black and White Movie Company; SCREAMPLAY is a deliriously entertaining demonstration of the power of low budget invention, and a singularly charming salute to Old Hollywood. Premiered at the 1985 New York Independent Film Festival, initially distributed by Troma (see above), but rarely screened in recent decades, SCREAMPLAY has been newly restored in 4K and is now back in circulation, where it’s poised to charm, delight, and frighten a whole new audience.

• BO HARWOOD RECORD RELEASE EVENT: THE KILLING OF A CHINESE BOOKIE
September 27
This screening is presented on the occasion of the launch of a new LP devoted to the work of Bo Harwood (1946-2022), the composer whose music appears throughout John Cassavetes’s films and whose songs and compositions were often made with Cassavetes’s participation. The record brings together eleven recordings straight from the master tapes held by Bo during his lifetime, including music from THE KILLING OF A CHINESE BOOKIE, A WOMAN UNDER THE INFLUENCE, OPENING NIGHT, and LOVE STREAMS, as well as “Bach Train” and other compositions. The LP will be available for purchase at the screening (with a discounted price for ticket-holders).

Membership + Donations

There has never been a better time to support Anthology. Like many small arts organizations, Anthology is sensitive to the financial and administrative challenges of these times. By joining or renewing your membership, purchasing a membership for a friend, or making a tax-deductible donation of any amount, you can help to support our film exhibition and film preservation operations!

Join or renew your membership

Anthology Film Archives is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization and is partially funded by: