UID:442 | 2026-09-16 | "SummerStage" <newsletter@cityparksfoundation.org> | Final Shows of SummerStage 2026!

Young the Giant, NY Sings Yiddish, Charley Crockett and more

View this email in your browser

Hey, New York! 

We can’t believe we’re nearing the end of our 2026 40th anniversary season of Capital One City Parks Foundation SummerStage. It’s bittersweet, but don’t worry, we still have a few excellent shows left this month. 

We’ll see you TOMORROW for New York Sings Yiddish: Passing the Torch to a New Generation. This free showcase features an exciting roster of rising stars including Yair Keydar, Rikki Rose, Margot Weintraub, YidLife Crisis, and so many others in association with the National Yiddish Theatre Folksbiene. Doors will open at 6PM. 

Then, join us on September 22 for our free Music for Action: A Climate Week Concert with Young the Giant and St. Lucia in partnership with LymeLnk and supported by the Steven & Alexandra Cohen Foundation’s Cohen Lyme and Tickborne Disease Initiative. For a chance to win VIP tickets you can RSVP for the show here, although as with all SummerStage shows, first come, first served until we fill up. RSVP is not required and does not guarantee entry. Doors will open at 6PM. 

Plus, don’t miss our final benefit shows of the season in Central Park. Tickets are still available for Of Monsters and Men on September 23 and Charley Crockett on October 1. Couldn’t get tickets to the sold out Yeat show on September 18? Follow along on our socials!

Thanks for celebrating 40 with us this summer. This isn’t the end - we have plenty of opportunities to work and play in parks, from education to community building to sports programs. Visit us at cityparksfoundation.org to learn more  – we can’t wait to see you in the parks.  
 

FROM OUR FRIENDS

Yerba Madre

Enter for a chance to win the ultimate prize package: $30K Cash for College, a year of Yerba Madre, a Rocco fridge, JBL speaker & more! Play our daily Can Match Game for Instant-Win prizes. Visit the link for entry & official rules.

LEARN MORE

DoNYC

Three Nights. Three Sunset Sets. One Very Good Reason to Go Uptown.

We Belong Here returns to Wollman Rink this October for three nights of golden hour glory. Things kick off with Meduza and LP Giobbi, then Stephan Bodzin live and Ben Böhmer at sunset, and the weekend closes with Steve Angello and a late-day Bob Moses club set. All of it goes down on the festival’s 360° stage.

LEARN MORE

DoNYC

Fresh off “Distracted,” his latest track featuring Tame Impala, A$AP Rocky, and Lil Yachty, Thundercat is bringing his unmistakable sound and seriously wild basslines to Kings Theatre.

Known for blending funk, jazz, R&B, and psychedelic soul into something completely his own, Thundercat has built a reputation for live shows that are equal parts virtuosic and unpredictable. Expect lightning-fast bass runs, smooth vocals, deep grooves, and plenty of moments that make you stop and wonder how he’s even doing that.

Enter to win a pair of tickets to see Thundercat at Kings Theatre and experience one of the most inventive musicians around doing what he does best.

LEARN MORE

COMING UP AT SUMMERSTAGE

FREE
NEW YORK SINGS YIDDISH: PASSING THE TORCH TO A NEW GENERATION FEATURING YIDLIFE CRISIS / YAIR KEYDAR / RIKKI ROSE AND MORE
In association with The National Yiddish Theatre Folksbiene

Thursday, September 17
Event Begins: 6PM
SummerStage in Central Park

From tradition to tomorrow, the National Yiddish Theatre Folksbiene passes the torch to a new generation

LEARN MORE

FREE
MUSIC FOR ACTION: A CLIMATE WEEK CONCERT: YOUNG THE GIANT / ST. LUCIA
Presented in partnership with LymeLnk and supported by the Steven & Alexandra Cohen Foundation’s Cohen Lyme & Tickborne Disease Initiative

Tuesday, September 22
Event Begins: 6PM
SummerStage in Central Park

Turning up the Volume on Climate Change & Tick-Borne Disease

LEARN MORE

Generous private support for SummerStage is provided by Sleeping Phoenix Foundation, The Thompson Family Foundation, Howard Gilman Foundation, Rick and Danielle Arnstein, Elizabeth Sarnoff and Andy Cohen, Mertz Gilmore Foundation, The Charles and Lucille King Family Foundation, The Shubert Organization, The Hyde and Watson Foundation, and NYU Community Fund. Generous public support for select SummerStage programs is provided, in part, by the Mayor's Office of Media and Entertainment, the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs in partnership with the City Council, the New York State Council on the Arts with the support of the Office of the Governor and the New York State Legislature, the National Endowment for the Arts, and Queens Borough President Donovan Richards. SummerStage is made possible by the New York State Council on the Arts with the support of the Office of the Governor and the New York State Legislature. Capital One is the title sponsor of Capital One City Parks Foundation SummerStage. Supporting Sponsors Subaru, Bloomberg Philanthropies, Yeti, New York Lottery, Archer Roose, United Airlines. SummerStage extends its gratitude to Joe Killian, Founder and Executive Producer of SummerStage (1986–1993), current City Parks Foundation Board Member and Arts Committee Co-Chair.

As an independent, non-profit organization, we rely on our donors to help us make SummerStage possible. Support from donors will help secure the future of SummerStage as New York’s largest free outdoor performing arts festival. We believe the arts are for everyone and encourage those who are able to donate to visit our website for more information.

GIVE

At City Parks Foundation, we are dedicated to invigorating and transforming parks into dynamic, vibrant centers of urban life through sports, arts, community building and education programs for all New Yorkers. Our programs -- located in hundreds of parks, recreation centers and public schools across New York City -- reach thousands of people each year. Our ethos is simple: thriving parks mean thriving communities.