UID:443 | 2026-09-16 | "Data & Society" <info@datasociety.net> | Sept 28: Join us to explore what's at stake as AI enters schools, plus: the fantasy of the AI apocalypse, what we tell AI

September 16, 2026

AROUND THE INSTITUTE

 

SEPTEMBER 28: WHO GETS TO DECIDE HOW AI ENTERS OUR SCHOOLS?

This is a pivotal year for shaping the role AI will play in American classrooms. Around the country, states have already begun distributing AI products across school districts, and this school year New York City's Department of Education has barred student AI use in elementary and middle schools. On September 28 at 6:30 p.m. ET, join us online or onsite at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Library (SNFL) in New York City as we explore what's at stake for the city's more than 1,700 schools and the millions of students and families they serve. This event marks the launch of the essential new book Coding Kids: Big Tech's Battle to Remake Public Schools, by New York Times reporter and Data & Society alum Natasha Singer. Singer will discuss her reporting on how tech companies are using schools to mainstream their AI tools with Amanda Lenhart, senior fellow at the Joan Ganz Cooney Center at the Sesame Workshop; and Scott Kern, a longtime teacher at North Star Academy in Newark, NJ and the AI innovation lead for Uncommon Schools. Following an introduction by Data & Society Executive Director Janet Haven, the conversation will be moderated by data journalist and NYU professor Meredith Broussard. RSVP and join us online or in-person!

Plus: Listen to Natasha Singer discuss her book on Fresh Air. "We're skipping over all the hard questions, and the tools are just helping kids and teachers bring into being the AI-driven world that the tech companies want and that benefit the tech companies," she tells host Terry Gross.

OCTOBER 7: POWER AND RESISTANCE IN THE AGE OF TECH OLIGARCHY

In Silicon Valley, economic, political, and state power have fused, and tech oligarchs like Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg are reshaping the world in their image. Two new books examine this decades-long trajectory from very different angles: In Muskism: A Guide for the Perplexed, Quinn Slobodian and Ben Tarnoff explore how figures like Musk embody a social system where technological infrastructure — from satellites to social media platforms — pave the road to a “freedom” rooted in reactionary geopolitics and racial hierarchies enforced by militarized violence. In Against Tech Oligarchy: Worker Resistance in the World’s Most Powerful Industry, JS Tan and Clarissa Redwine write about how many tech workers were attracted to the industry by a different kind of freedom, one that promised a more connected and democratic world. While in recent years this façade has crumbled, the authors show how the “dry kindling” that both set off and consumed tech workers’ collective action against oligarchic powers had been present in Silicon Valley all along. On October 7 at 2 p.m. ET, join Slobodian, Tan, and Redwine as they discuss the structural forces shaping tech and state power, and what lessons we can draw from the tech worker movement for building a different future, in a conversation moderated by Aiha Nguyen, director of Data & Society’s Labor Futures program. Learn more and RSVP to join us online.

OCTOBER 2: COMMUNITY-CENTERED AI INFRASTRUCTURE SUMMIT

Convening in Pittsburgh, the day-long Community-Centered AI Infrastructure Summit will bring together residents, community organizers, policymakers, researchers, technologists, energy experts, labor and environmental advocates, and others to consider the opportunities, challenges, and governance of AI infrastructure development in Pennsylvania. The summit, hosted at Carnegie Mellon University in partnership with Data & Society, the Center for Coalfield Justice, and the Pennsylvania Climate Equity Table, will create space to learn from community experiences and emerging research, examine policy responses, and identify shared priorities for more equitable, sustainable, and accountable AI infrastructure development. Learn more and RSVP to attend on-site or via livestream.

September 23: Protecting Democracy’s Data

The United States census, conducted every ten years, is one of the world’s oldest and biggest data-making endeavors, and one of the country’s most consequential. In her urgent new book Data Are Made, Not Found: A Story of Politics, Power, and the Civil Servants Who Saved the US Census, professor, researcher, and Data & Society founder danah boyd explores what it took for the Census Bureau to make the 2020 census, amid a global pandemic and natural disasters, and while navigating political forces that constrained the budget, micro-managed the schedule, and attacked statisticians’ methods. Despite these challenges, civil servants saved the 2020 census, but future censuses — and other data-making efforts related to elections, health, and the economy — are precarious. Join us on September 23 at 1 p.m. ET as boyd delves into her research and its implications with historian and author Dan Bouk, in a conversation moderated by Data & Society Executive Director Janet Haven. Learn more and RSVP to join us online.

SEPTEMBER 22: HOW DATA CENTER FIGHTS ARE RENEWING LOCAL POWER ACROSS THE US

As AI use expands across the US, data centers are arriving in communities that have already lived through the rise and fall of steel factories, coal plants, and fracking infrastructure. Residents are organizing to demand a say in how these facilities operate and change the places where they live. On September 22 at 5:30 p.m. ET, join Data & Society and the Pulitzer Center during NYC Climate Week to talk data centers with Maia Woluchem, director of D&S's Trustworthy Infrastructure program; Alejandra Martinez, environmental reporter at The Texas Tribune and Pulitzer Center grantee; Brian Crawford, a Texas resident with Protect the Paluxy Valley Inc; and Ginny Marcille-Kerslake, a Pennsylvania resident and senior organizer at Food and Water Watch. The conversation will be moderated by Kit R. Roane, senior producer at Retro Report, and held at Retro Report’s offices in New York City.

A collaboration between the Pulitzer Center, Retro Report, and Data & Society, this event marks the launch of our forthcoming report, The AI Factory: Data Centers, Power and Resistance in Late Industrial Pennsylvania, based on eighteen months of field research in Pennsylvania, alongside Pulitzer Center-supported reporting on data center development by The Texas Tribune. Learn more and RSVP: please note that this event is on-site only, and space is limited.

FIELD NOTES

 

HOW ALGORITHMS KEEP PEOPLE POOR

In Dissent, Veena Dubal and Katie J. Wells vividly illustrate how algorithmic wages and prices play out in people’s lives, putting extreme pressure on them not only in the present, but in ways that constrain their opportunities — including their financial lives — in the future. An algorithmically mediated life produces what Dubal calls “predetermined purchasing power.” As she and Wells explain, this means that even before a person acts, “the range of choices available to her has already been narrowed by what firms have inferred about her. Her wage has been adjusted toward what she is predicted to accept. The price of necessities has been adjusted toward what she is predicted to tolerate. Her rent, fees, credit, and access to her own wages are shaped by calculations about whether she can wait, whether she can leave, whether she has savings, and whether she has alternatives.” All of this, they write, “are symptoms of a political economy built on the continuous conversion of movement, delay, fatigue, debt, location, browsing, hunger, punctuality, and desperation into commercial leverage."

Plus: After many of his corporate clients opted to use AI instead of paying for his services, writer Daniel Kolitz saw his livelihood evaporate — and got hooked on predatory AI-facilitated payday loan apps. “The payday ethos…posits that if there are people out there who desperately need money, one can and should deploy advanced technology to exploit them,” he writes in The Baffler.

THE FANTASY OF THE AI APOCALYPSE

Anthropic researcher Jacob Coxon’s recent announcement that he quit his job at the company because he believes AI technology will “kill us all by the end of the decade” got The Atlantic’s Ian Bogost thinking about earlier versions of anticipated end-times. The idea that AI will destroy humanity, he argues, is tied to longstanding fantasies about the end of the world. It stems, too, from a yearning for bygone days where there was "lucidity of threat." Today, Bogost writes, “thinking of AI as a dangerous superintelligence capable of eradicating civilization is much more fulfilling than pondering the threat of a cluster of haphazard computer programs.” If we must consider the apocalypse, it seems we’d prefer a less mundane one.  

WHAT WE TELL AI

As AI becomes entwined with the most personal aspects of our lives and relationships, What We Tell AI is a fascinating and very human project that collects and publishes anonymous, handwritten "confessions" about people's complex experiences living with this technology. Driven by the recognition that the changes wrought by AI are “happening too fast for individual sense-making,” the project aims to prompt the kinds of reflections that are often preempted by more headline-grabbing issues. “While ‘everyone is talking about AI,’ certain topics remain taboo: fear of being left behind, shame around emotional dependence and personal experimentation,” the creators explain on the project’s website, which also displays the confessions they’ve collected. “Personalized AI also silos us into singular experiences, making collective discussion difficult — we’re not all experiencing the same version of ‘chat.’”  

NETWORK EVENTS

 

September 23, 2026

Digital Oblivion: How Autocrats Engineer Forgetting

CUNY

September 24, 2026

The Economics of AI: Balancing Innovation and Equity

Rest of World

Was this email forwarded to you?

SUBSCRIBE TO THIS NEWSLETTER

For more information, visit datasociety.net.

Image by Surbhi Chawla

This newsletter is curated with support from Eryn Loeb, Surbhi Chawla, Katherine Heidecke, and Sona Rai.

Data & Society studies the social implications of data-centric technologies, automation, and AI.