UID:444 | 2026-09-16 | "Joy Bivins, Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture" <schomburgsociety@email.nypl.org> | Help preserve our archives history; the Schomburg Center needs you!

All donations matched, double your impact today.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               

View in browser Forward

Donate

Make a matched gift today and help us meet our goal to raise $50,000 and preserve the Schomburg Center's unparalleled, world-class archives.

Match my gift

The New York Public Library's Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture recently received generous state funding to refurbish our building's facade and create the best possible physical environment for study, scholarship, and community as we embark on our next 100 years. With external improvements to the Schomburg Center assured, we can now focus on preserving our most valuable treasures within our world-class archives of 11 million items that document the culture and history of people of African descent.

We are truly honored to have such support from our public officials for the refurbishment of our home in Harlem. Today, we're turning to Library supporters like you with an important appeal. Will you help support the preservation of our unparalleled archives inside?

Any gift you make to the Schomburg Center will be instantly matched and will go twice as far towards our goal to raise $50,000 for the protection and expansion of our archival collections. As a sign of our deep appreciation for your generosity, you'll receive an exclusive invitation to tour our archives in the spring and see what you help make possible for this generation and future generations to discover.

Sometimes we forget how truly extraordinary the Schomburg Center's archives are. Anyone with a library card can access centuries of history and culture and explore the personal papers of Black luminaries like James Baldwin, Maya Angelou, Malcolm X, Langston Hughes, and our founder, Arturo Schomburg. Since our founding in 1925, the Schomburg Center has preserved, protected, and shared the richness of the Black experience with visitors, scholars, and students from around the world. From our founder Arturo Schomburg's initial collection of thousands of works of Black literature, artwork, and other objects, we have become the world's leading repository of Black cultural knowledge, history, and scholarship.

Match my gift

Last year—our historic 100th anniversary year—was a time of celebration, but also of reflection and awareness of the profound urgency of our moment. The study of Black history is under attack across the country. There is a coordinated campaign to minimize the truth about our nation's past, from banning books by iconic Black authors to whitewashing school curricula. Here at the Schomburg Center, we see our work of preservation as more important than ever. That's why we're inviting you to support our community dedicated to protecting Black history and culture.

As we look ahead to our next 100 years, we hope you'll take this opportunity to contribute to the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in a truly meaningful and impactful way. Please make your first-ever gift to the Schomburg Center a matched gift and help us reach our goal to raise $50,000 for our unique archives that document the truth about Black history and culture. Your contribution today will help us continue our mission of more than 100 years and ensure that our home in Harlem and our archives remain a sanctuary of truth. To thank you for your generosity, you'll receive an exclusive invitation to tour our world-renowned archives in spring 2027.

Thank you for being part of a community dedicated to preserving and celebrating Black culture and history. We are so grateful for your support.

Sincerely,

Joy L. Bivins
Director, Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture

P.S. Don't miss your chance to make a matched gift and receive an exclusive tour of our archives!

Match my gift

----------------------------------------