UID:450 | 2026-09-16 | "MoMI News" <info@movingimage.org> | NYFF at MoMI tickets on sale; plus Wild Inside, The Birds, The Wrath of Khan & more

MoMI News | September 16, 2026

View this email in your browser

MoMI NEWS | September 16, 2026

Dear will,

Shanah Tovah to all who celebrate, and happy start of NYC schools (especially for parents)! Our busy September continues this weekend with the Opening Night of the Climate Film Festival featuring the East Coast premiere of House of Fish and director Santiago Burin des Roziers in person; a celebration of 60 years of Star Trek with a 35mm screening of Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan; 10th anniversary screenings of Makoto Shinkai's beloved animated fantasy Your Name.; Robert Berry's sixties avant garde horror rediscovery House of Dreams; and Alfred Hitchcock's classic The Birds. 

In Open Worlds: Science, this Saturday's Wild City promises a lively—free—afternoon exploring the ecology of NYC's wild residents, including a screening of Penny Lane's Flaco the Owl documentary Wild Inside; Astoria Comic Readers Club hosts a conversation about the epic space opera comic SAGA; and MoMI and Tezos join forces next Tuesday for an evening of artist talks and interactive installations in Responsive Signals.

Coming up: our four-day celebration of Jim Henson's 90th birthday includes many artist panels and events, lots of music, screenings with guests, and the special live music and performance show Jim Henson's Harmonious Hoopla. Other highlights include an anniversary screening of Jim Henson's Oscar-nominated 1965 experimental short film Time Piece, a live recording of the Tough Pigs podcast focused on the Henson Creature Shop, and a Henson Sing-Along with Lucas Ross. There's a lot happening—and a lot of it is free!—so check out the schedule and make your reservations now!

Also upcoming: our spooky screening series Handcrafted Horrors kicks off on October 3! Please note: MoMI After Dark tours are nearly sold out—limited spots available for Sep. 26 and Oct. 17.

NYFF at MoMI: Tickets on Sale!
October 4–9

MoMI will again partner with Film at Lincoln Center to present New York Film Festival screenings at the Museum. See six of this fall's most anticipated films in advance, including Once Upon a Time in Harlem, Rose, Tender Loving Care, Bitter Christmas, Behemoth!, and The Only Living Pickpocket in New York.

EXHIBITION HIGHLIGHT

Terms of Agreement 🐳
A collaborative work by Jonas Lund and Yoshi Sodeoka
On view through October 25

The latest Museum commission for the Schlosser Media Wall, presented in partnership with the Tezos Foundation, considers the activities of whales, incorporating real-time wallet transactions from a handful of top art collectors (known as “whales”) combined with live data from actual whales being tracked at sea. The public is invited to collect a process piece from the work either online or in person.

Lund and Sodeoka will talk about their work on Tuesday, Sep. 22, as part of the Responsive Signals event. Free with RSVP.

OPPORTUNITIES AT MoMI

Applications for the 2026–2027 Teen Council are now open! 

A part of the Teen Digital Media Innovators program, Teen Council is a job development program for NYC teens interested in the media arts who want a behind-the-scenes look at how a media museum works. Members organize public events for youth, including film festivals, and media workshops.
 

Interested in volunteering at MoMI?

The Museum offers opportunities for volunteers to gain exposure to our operations, participate in events like our upcoming Jim Henson Birthday celebration, and get to know the MoMI community.

MoMI Merch Meet: Seeking vendors for MoMI's first artisan market on Sunday, November 22! Are you a local maker whose work—including art, hats, shirts, buttons, jewelry, toys, zines, comics, housewares, and more—showcases creative expressions of love for the moving image? Email publicprograms@movingimage.org for more information. 

NOW SHOWING

Climate Film Festival Opening Night: House of Fish
With director Santiago Burin des Roziers in person
Friday, September 18, 7:00 p.m.

After witnessing decades of destruction caused by illegal bottom trawling, a humble Italian fisherman devised a bold solution: an underwater museum of monumental marble sculptures that protect the seabed by preventing trawling while standing as powerful symbols of hope and resistance. East Coast premiere. With reception.

Part of Science on Screen

House of Dreams
Friday, September 18, 7:00 p.m.

A frustrated author is plagued by recurring nightmares centered around a haunted house. Shot on gritty 16mm film stock in Indiana and never legitimately distributed, 1963's House of Dreams is a hidden chapter of mid-century, avant garde horror from director/star Robert Berry that is as haunting as it is sincere. 

Part of Disreputable Cinema, free for MoMI members

 

Your Name. (10th Anniversary)
Saturday, September 19, 12:00 p.m.
Sunday, September 20, 2:00 p.m.

On the eve of a rare cosmic event, two high school students, strangers living separate lives, suddenly switch places. See Makoto Shinkai’s beloved 2016 animated fantasy on the occasion of its 10th anniversary! New 4K remaster.

Part of World of Animation, free for MoMI members

The Birds
Sunday, September 20, 3:00 p.m.
Saturday, September 26, 6:30 p.m. 

Especially experienced on the big screen, Alfred Hitchcock’s boldly music-free master class in mounting and inexplicable dread feels properly apocalyptic, a film that begins as a romcom and ends as an unending screech from the void.

Part of Practical Magic, free for MoMI members

Did you know as a MoMI Member screening tickets are discounted or free—and your benefits continue for a full year! Learn more and become a Member today.

Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan (35mm) + "Space Seed"
Sunday, September 20, 12:00 p.m.

Nicholas Meyer's stunning sci-fi spectacle finds James T. Kirk, now an admiral in Starfleet, wrestling with life after adventure while on what may be the final mission in his storied career, overseeing the training of the next generation of explorers to boldly go… Preceded by the classic original series episode "Space Seed." 

Part of Practical Magic, free for MoMI members

FREE OPEN WORLDS EVENTS
Lead Supporter: William Fox, Jr. Foundation. Open Worlds: Science programs are supported by the Simons Foundation.

Wild City
Saturday, September 19,
11:30 a.m.–4:30 p.m.

Join us for a day exploring the ecology of the wild animals of New York City with Gotham Coyote, Gotham Whale, and others, along with a screening of Wild Inside, the new documentary from Penny Lane about Flaco the Owl.

Free with RSVP. Reserve spots for the talk and screening.

Astoria Comic Readers Club: SAGA
Sunday, September 20,
2:30–4:30 p.m.

Join Astoria Comic Readers Club for a conversation about SAGA, the epic space opera comic created by Brian K. Vaughan and Fiona Staples that combines family drama, romance, war, (weird) aliens, and dark humor. 

Free with RSVP

Responsive Signals
Tuesday, September 22, 6:00 p.m.

Join MoMI and Art on Tezos during Armory Week for an evening of artist talks and interactive installations featuring Jonas Lund, Yoshi Sodeoka, Kat Zhang, and Nick Fox-Gieg in-person at the Museum.

Free with RSVP

MoMI LAB
Free hours: Thursday, 2:00–6:00. Friday, 2:00–8:00. Saturday & Sunday, 11:00–6:00

Encounter drop-in interactive experiences as well as deep-learning stations around emerging technologies and the moving image, all facilitated by Museum educators. New: join free demos and tours (every Thursday and Friday) and learn about upcoming free workshops.

NEXT WEEKEND

Celebrating Jim Henson's 90th Birthday
September 24–27

Join MoMI to commemorate Jim Henson’s birthday (September 24, 1936) with a special four-day celebration in honor of what would have been his 90th year. This fun weekend for all ages kicks off with a special presentation of Jim Henson's Harmonious Hoopla, and features a slew of special guests, screenings, workshops, community choir opportunities, collectible swap meet, live music in the courtyard, and more!

Jim Henson’s Harmonious Hoopla
Thursday, September 24, 7:00 p.m.
Friday, September 25. 7:00 p.m.

From the Jim Henson Company and Heather Henson Productions, Jim Henson’s Harmonious Hoopla stars Henson performers Jordan Brownlee, Aymee Garcia, and Leslie Carrara-Rudolph as they play memorable and iconic songs from the legacy of Jim Henson with a live band and puppets from Jim Henson’s Creature Shop.

Part of Celebrating Jim Henson’s Birthday 2026

60 Years of Jim Henson’s Time Piece
Saturday, September 26, 12:00 p.m.

Jim Henson's 1965 experimental short Time Piece remains fresh today as both a time capsule of 1960s experimental filmmaking and as a brilliantly conceived and edited example of Henson’s creativity. Screening and presentation by Karen Falk, Archives Director of the Jim Henson Company. 

Part of Jim Henson's World and Celebrating Jim Henson’s Birthday 2026, free for MoMI members

COMING SOON

Handcrafted Horrors
October 3–31

The history of cinematic horror is also a history of practical effects. The best films of the genre have classically found ways to visualize the impossible using ingenious on-set tricks and treats, hand-drawn animation, and makeup. This Halloween season, we’re pleased to present a buffet of monster-pieces, including The Creature from the Black Lagoon (presented in 3-D!), Fantasia, Faust, The Exorcist, Nosferatu with live musical accompaniment, Bram Stoker's Dracula, and more.

And don't forget these offers and amenities:
 * Free gallery hours every Thursday, 2:00–6:00 p.m.
 * Friday Date Night: bring your sweetie or friend to MoMI with this special deal.
 * Take a break at Mon Amour Coffee & Wine in our lobby.
 * Open Worlds: free access to our ground-floor spaces during Museum hours.

REVERSE SHOT AND SLOAN SCIENCE & FILM

Reverse Shot Review: Hope

"The small seaside town of Hope Harbor, already isolated by surrounding mountains and its proximity to the Korean Demilitarized Zone, has been further cut off by wildfires that have drawn away most emergency workers and knocked out communications services. Which is rotten luck when hostile aliens are wreaking havoc." Dan Schindel reviews Na Hong-jin's latest film.

Read the review here.

Sloan Science and Film: Director Interview—The Hummingbird Paints Fragrant Songs

Making its world premiere at TIFF 2026, Èlia Gasull Balada and Matteo Norzi's documentary follows Sara Flores, an indigenous Peruvian artist who burst onto the contemporary art scene late in life. We spoke with Balada and Norzi ahead of the film’s premiere about following Sara’s life and career, making films in the Amazon, and working with the Shipibo people and community.

Read the interview here.

MoMI acknlowledges the following programmatic and institutional support:

Overexposed: Art, Technology, and the Body: Lead support was provided by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts. Additional generous support was provided by Romy Cohen, The Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, Elaine Goldman, May & Samuel Rudin Family Foundation, and Doug Pugh.

Open Worlds 2026: Programmatic support provided by New York City Council, NYC Department of Cultural Affairs, Bank of America, the William Fox, Jr. Foundation, New York State Council on the Arts, and the Office of the Queens Borough President Donovan Richards. Open Worlds: Science programs supported by the Simons Foundation.

Public Support: The Museum gratefully acknowledges the leadership and assistance of: Mayor Zohran Mamdani; Queens Borough President Donovan Richards, Jr.; Speaker of the New York City Council Julie Menin; the entire Queens delegation of the New York City Council; Commissioner of the NYC Department of Cultural Affairs Diya Vij; Governor Kathy Hochul; New York State Senator Michael N. Gianaris; New York State Senator Kristen Gonzalez; New York Assemblymember Diana Moreno; Senator Chuck Schumer; Senator Kirsten Gillibrand; Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez; Dormitory Authority of New York State; New York City Department of Cultural Affairs; New York City Department of Citywide Administrative Services; Regional Economic Development Council.