UID:452 | 2026-09-17 | "e-flux Agenda" <art-agenda@mailer.e-flux.com> | Applications open for Art Brussels 2027

We are thrilled to announce that applications are now open for Art Brussels 2027, one of the most an…

  

Applications open for 43rd edition

Art Brussels

Art Brussels 2026. © David Plas.

Deadline: October 16

Fair: April 15–18, 2027

Art Brussels
Brussels Expo
Pl. de Belgique 1
Brussels, 1020
Belgium

artbrussels.com
Instagram

We are thrilled to announce that applications are now open for Art Brussels 2027, one of the most anticipated events on the international art calendar.

The 43rd edition will take place from Thursday, April 15 to Sunday, April 18, 2027 at Brussels Expo, during an exciting moment for the city’s art scene, with the opening of two major museums: Kanal-Centre Pompidou and the Musée d’Ixelles.

Welcoming 25,000 international collectors and art professionals annually, Art Brussels offers a dynamic platform for discovering, presenting and engaging with contemporary art.

“This spirit of curiosity has been at the heart of the fair since 1968, establishing Art Brussels as one of the leading contemporary art events in Europe. With its strong and precise gallery selection, Art Brussels brings together exceptional art, emerging voices and unexpected discoveries, creating a distinctive platform for exchange and engagement.

For its 2027 edition, Art Brussels presents the second edition of Horizons, curated by Chris Dercon and dedicated to practices that challenge the traditional booth format. Together with its dedicated VIP programme and initiatives such as the Discovery Acquisition Prize, the fair continues to foster meaningful connections between galleries, collectors and institutions.” —Nele Verhaeren, Managing Director of Art Brussels

Why participate in Art Brussels 2027?

The second edition of Horizons
A dedicated section featuring works that transcend the traditional booth format, with the selection curated by Chris Dercon, Director of Fondation Cartier pour l’art contemporain, Paris.

An exclusive VIP programme
Offering unique experiences for your key collectors, while leaving plenty of time to discover the fair beyond the VIP Preview Cocktail.

New on-site and off-site events
Creating new opportunities to connect and engage with international collectors, curators and art professionals.

Dedicated collector support
Dedicated desks providing guidance to new and emerging collectors and facilitating direct connections with gallerists.

Apply here. For all queries regarding your application, please contact Sibylle Cosyn, Head of Gallery Relations at sibylle.cosyn@easyfairs.com.

Application deadline: Friday, October 16, 2026

Participating galleries are selected by the distinguished members of our committees, whose profiles can be found on the Art Brussels website.

Art Brussels looks forward to welcoming you to its 43rd edition!

Contact

Facebook
X
Instagram

e-flux App

172 Classon Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11205
USA

This announcement was sent to wf.eventScout@gmail.com. You have received it because you have successfully subscribed to e-flux Agenda. You can revoke your consent and