UID:456 | 2026-09-17 | "Printed Matter, Inc." <news@printedmatter.org> | 🧢 The Printed Matter baseball cap you've all been waiting for. 🎆

Become a Member to receive yours!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

FROM NYABF TO NYFW, PRINTED MATTER MEMBERS HAVE NEVER LOOKED BETTER.

Friend, Insider, and Champion Memberships come with a special new Printed Matter baseball cap created on the occasion of our 50th Anniversary. The navy blue cap features Printed Matter’s classic logo embroidered on the front, MEMBER on the side, and Artists’ Books Since 1976 on the back.

With the NY Art Book Fair just one week away, it’s a good time to get yours. Wear it to MoMA PS1 and stop by the Printed Matter booth so we can snap your picture.

👀 Spotted at New York Fashion Week 👀

Thank you to everyone who took it for a test drive!

Pictured: Blake Abbie, José Criales-Unzueta, Naomi Elizée Blue, Shay Johnson, Lynette Nylander, Rachel Scott, Steff Yotka

Become a Printed Matter Member today!

FRIEND Members receive the

Base Membership Package:

★ 10% off most purchases in store, online, and at Printed Matter’s Fair booth

★ Complimentary general admission (Fri–Sun) to our NY and LA Art Book Fairs

★ Early access to new Printed Matter titles & Artists’ Editions

★ Invitations to new Printed Matter Reading Circles

★ Member-exclusive Printed Matter baseball cap

$75 for one year

($50 tax-deductible)

Become a Friend Member!

INSIDER Members receive:

★ ALL of the above plus:

★ Access to special exhibition previews and curatorial walk-throughs as well as biannual coffee hours with Printed Matter staff and visiting artists

★ Exclusive perks at our annual Spring Benefit

★ Recognition on Printed Matter’s website and Annual Report

★ Member-exclusive Printed Matter tote bag AND baseball cap

$500 for one year

($400 tax-deductible)

Become an Insider Member!

CHAMPION Members receive:

★ ALL of the above plus:

★ Free entry for you and a guest to NYABF and LAABF Opening Night celebrations

★ Limited-edition Peter Downsbrough gelatin silver print, produced by Laumont Photographics

$1,000 for one year

($750 tax-deductible)

Become a Champion Member!

Email genevieve@printedmatter.org with any questions.

 

Browse our catalog   ●   Become a member   ●   Make a donation

Printed Matter, Inc.
Printed Matter, Inc. is an independent 501(c)3 non-profit organization founded in 1976 by artists and art workers with the mission to foster the appreciation, dissemination, and understanding of artists’ books and other artists’ publications.

Printed Matter, Inc.

231 11th Avenue

New York, NY 10001

www.printedmatter.org

www.pmabf.org

T: 212 925 0325

Printed Matter’s bookstore is wheelchair accessible.