UID:460 | 2026-09-17 | "NYU Game Center" <gamecenter@nyu.edu> | The NYU Game Center is back for Fall 2026!

Upcoming events, and more...

This Week:

Playtest Thursday
Thursday, September 17th, 5:30pm - 7:30pm
370 Jay Street, Room 233
External Guests Join the Guest List Here

Next Week:

Game Devs of Color Expo 2026
Wednesday, Sept. 22nd through Friday, Sept. 25th
Online and at OSNYC on 09/25
More info below!

Playtest Thursday
Thursday, September 14th, 5:30pm - 7:30pm
370 Jay Street, Room 233
External Guests Join the Guest List Here

Welcome Back!

The faculty and staff of the NYU Game Center are thrilled to welcome you all back for a new semester of events, lectures, community showcases, and more! We will have plenty of events to announce in the coming weeks, so stay tuned!

Playtest Thursday

PLAYTEST THURSDAYS ARE BACK FOR FALL 2026!
EVERY THURSDAY FROM NOW UNTIL DECEMBER 3RD
370 JAY STREET, ROOM 233
 

Playtest Thursday has returned for the Fall 2026 semester! Join us for this weekly, in-house playtesting event where you can get feedback on your work-in-progress games from local game devs and NYU students & faculty. The event is completely free and open to the public! Any games (digital, non-digital, hybrid, etc.) in any state of completion are welcome. You also don't need to be playtesting a game to attend! Playtesters of all kind are always welcome.

To join the weekly guest list for Playtest Thursday, fill out the form linked below. You only need to fill out the form once to be perpetually added to 370 Jay Street's guest access list every Thursday, regardless of your ability to attend on any given week! No confirmation is needed. Guest access for Playtest Thursday is generated every Thursday at around 5:00pm, meaning if you arrive before 5:00pm, you may not yet bet in building security's list of approved guests.

Join the Playtest Thursday guest list here

Game Devs of Color Expo

GAME DEVS OF COLOR EXPO 2026 RETURNS FOR ITS 11TH YEAR! 

The GDoCExpo conference brings together game creators from around the world for an online conference featuring talks, panels, interviews, networking and social sessions, community demos, the GDoCExpo Direct, Steam Sale, grant awards, in-person watch parties, and more. Celebrate creativity and culture in games, and make new connections across the industry!

 * September 22-25, 2026
 * Online
 * Get 10% off tickets with code gdocAcademic -  
 * Can't afford a ticket? Apply for a need-based free ticket

Notable NYU Alumni and incubator projects will be featured as conference speakers, game showcases, and grant award nominees, including, Chris Kindred, Geneva Heyward, Bloomsome, and coalescent || tidal rapture!

GDoCExpo NYC Watch Party

Everyone is welcome! Experience Game Devs of Color Expo in-person at the NYC Watch Party. Watch the conference and GDoCExpo Direct together on the big screen, network, play, and share your games with New York City's game development community. Special thanks to Brian Chung ‘20 who is offering the NYU Game Center and community free tickets to attend (normally $10) to the in-person Watch Party!
 

 * September 25, 12pm - 10pm
 * OS NYC, 50 Bowery, New York City
 * For free tickets (normally $10) use code gdocNYU -  

More info here!

New York Games Week

NEW YORK GAMES WEEK IS COMING SOON!

The inaugural New York Games Week, a grand celebration of the video game industry and community, will feature events, showcases, conferences, tournaments, summits, professional mixers, and meetups across the five boroughs of New York City from Oct 4 - 11. You can read more about it in this Variety article here.

 

The NYU Game Center will be participating in a handful of events, including:

GDFL Cohort Celebration
Tuesday, October 6th, 6:00pm - 9:00pm
Location TBA
Attendance is by invitation - request an invitation here

On the evening of October 6th, our colleagues are hosting a Demo Day to send off GDFL Cohort 001 and welcome Cohort 002!

The NYC Game Design Future Lab is a games incubator at NYU Tandon, supported by the New York City Economic Development Corporation. Each year we take a cohort of NYC studios and creative technology companies and give them twelve months of space, mentorship and industry access at 370 Jay St.

Playtest Thursday - NY Games Week Edition
Thursday, October 8th, 5:30pm - 7:30pm
370 Jay Street, Room 233
Join the PTT guest list here

If you're going to attend only one Playtest Thursday this year, make it this one! Join us for an extra special Playtest Thursday, with special collaborations to be announced!

More info here!

NYU Game Center would like to thank our event sponsors.
  Their generous support makes our events possible.
Take-Two Interactive
Empire State Development