UID:463 | 2026-09-17 | "Blank Forms" <mail@blankforms.org> | Kou Records at Blank Forms—fall 2026 season

Beginning this October, Kou will program monthly events at Blank Forms as our Affiliate-in-Residence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

This fall, Kou Records launches its inaugural season at Blank Forms' new space at 151 Lafayette Street in Chinatown, our first dedicated home for live programming in New York City. As Founding Affiliate-in-Residence, we are presenting artists who have spent years, sometimes decades, developing musical languages that are undeniably their own.

Our programming is prompted by a monthly casting of the I Ching. Our season opens in October under Hexagram 2, Kun, The Receptive, with a two night showcase of Drew McDowall. Pure earth. We couldn’t be more ready.

— Charmaine & Randall, Kou Records / Kou Arts

Tickets are $25 / $15 students / $40 for select two-night passes.

You can also purchase a season pass for $125, which comes with a Kou vinyl of your choice in standard black.

Tickets & Info

 

Plus, last chance to get tickets to Laurie Spiegel: Voices Within this Friday 9/18 and Saturday 9/19. Prices go up at the door, so buy now if you want in!

 

OCTOBER 16–17
DREW McDOWALL

October 16: Time Machines (Coil) / Conversation with Mark Pilkington

The first of two evenings with Drew McDowall opens with a conversation with writer and publisher Mark Pilkington, followed by a performance devoted to the music of Coil, centered on Time Machines — the landmark 1998 album conceived as a tool for time travel through drone and continuous tone. McDowall, a longtime collaborator and member of Coil, brings a rare and intimate perspective to this material.

10/16 Tickets

October 17: A Thread, Silvered and Trembling with the Cartographic Ensemble

The second evening with Drew McDowall brings together new solo material alongside a performance of A Thread, Silvered and Trembling (2024) on Dais Records, performed with the Cartographic Ensemble, led and arranged by Brent Arnold.

10/17 Tickets

 

OCTOBER 31–NOVEMBER 1
OREN AMBARCHI

October 31: Oren Ambarchi / Randall Dunn

Oren Ambarchi arrives from Berlin for two nights only — his first US performances since 2020. The first of two evenings with Ambarchi celebrates his new solo record on Kou Records, Prophetic Perfect Tense. Randall Dunn also performs solo material from his new record Manifold of Partially Actualized Realities. An artist talk concludes the evening.

10/31 Tickets

November 1: Oren Ambarchi, Andrew Cyrille, Cyro Baptista

The second evening presents a first-ever trio encounter between Ambarchi, master percussionist Andrew Cyrille, and Brazilian percussionist and vocalist Cyro Baptista. Two sets, three distinct musical worlds.

11/1 Tickets

 

NOVEMBER 6–7
LAETITIA SONAMI
curated by ida belisle

November 6: Laetitia Sonami /
Chloe Alexandra Thompson

Laetitia Sonami makes a rare East Coast appearance for two evenings only, curated by longtime radio broadcaster and musician ida belisle. A performer, composer, and pioneering electronic instrument builder, Sonami's practice spans five decades of live electronics and gesture-based performance. The first night features performances of What Happened III–Now, a work for voice and live electronics performed with the lady's ball, and A Song for Two Mothers, developed for her primary instrument, the Spring Spyre. Interdisciplinary artist Chloe Alexandra Thompson performs between sets.

11/6 Tickets

November 7: Occam IX (Éliane Radigue) /lady's glove archival film & presentation /Conversation with ida belisle

The second evening with Laetitia Sonami opens with the lady's glove archival film and presentation, featuring five fabricated models of the instrument Sonami performed with for twenty-five year, and a guided listening session of works made with it. Sonami then performs Occam IX, a piece composed for her by Éliane Radigue specifically for the Spring Spyre, an instrument whose name was given by Radigue. The evening concludes with a moderated conversation between Sonami and ida belisle.

11/7 Tickets

 

DECEMBER 5
ERIC WUBBELS

December 5: Eric Wubbels Altarpiece H. af K. & Artist Talk / Ben Greenberg

Pianist and composer Eric Wubbels presents the New York premiere of Altarpiece H. af K. — a work and new record out on Kou records for bassoon trio written for and performed by Dana Jessen, Ben Roidl-Ward, and Katherine Young. The piece grew out of Wubbels's encounter with Hilma af Klint's 1915 Altarpieces at the Guggenheim. An artist talk will precede the performance. Ben Greenberg (Uniform) opens the evening with a solo guitar set.

12/5 Tickets

 

Blank Forms is a nonprofit organization supporting emerging and historically significant artists who produce work across disciplines, often rooted in traditions of experimental and creative music. We aim to establish new frameworks to preserve, nurture, and present these artists’ work and to build platforms for practices underrepresented in art’s commercial, institutional, and historical fields. Blank Forms collaborates with artists on commissions, exhibitions, publications as well as archival and estate projects within contemporary cultural ecosystems and in perpetuity. In presenting and documenting this work, Blank Forms seeks to foster an artistic community founded upon engaged and equitable conversations across continents, media, and generations.

Website

Instagram

Bandcamp

If you would no longer like to receive messages from Blank Forms, you can