UID:466 | 2026-09-17 | "Museum of the Moving Image" <info@movingimage.org> | 🐸 Guide to Celebrating Jim Henson's Birthday at MoMI

Sep. 24–27

View this email in your browser

We're looking forward to seeing you next weekend! Here's a guide to our Henson Birthday Celebration, which features events ranging from screenings and panels with special guests, workshops, collectible swap meet, a dance party, costume contest, community choir, and more — all ages are welcome!

Updates and special offers:

 * Use code JIM15 for 15% off Jim Henson's World programs (see below)
 * Sing-Along and Stroll-Along with Heather Henson tours are sold out.
 * The Puppet Tea Party with Stacey Gordon is at capacity.
 * NEW: never-before-exhibited puppets will be on view just for the weekend (to be revealed soon!)
 * NEW: look out for new Henson x MoMI merchandise!

Some events are free with RSVP and some require ticket purchase. Other events, such as the swap meet and Music in the Courtyard are drop-in — you just need to show up! See the full schedule here.

BE AMONG THE FIRST TO SEE THIS NEW FUN-FILLED LIVE SHOW!

Jim Henson’s Harmonious Hoopla
Thursday, Sep. 24, 7:00 p.m.
Friday, Sep. 25, 7:00 p.m.

From the Jim Henson Company and Heather Henson Productions: Stars Jordan Brownlee (Slumberkins) Aymee Garcia (Fraggle Rock: Back to the Rock), and Leslie Carrara-Rudolph (Sesame Street, Muppets Tonight) perform memorable and iconic songs with a live band and puppets from Jim Henson’s Creature Shop!

Get tickets

NEW HENSON MERCHANDISE!

We're debuting some new products during the Henson birthday celebration!

MoMI members will get first access Thursday night, Sep. 24, 6:00–8:00 p.m. in the MoMI Shop. Sales will open to the wider public starting Friday, Sep. 25!

FREE MUSICAL EVENTS ALL WEEKEND LONG!

Puppet Prom
Thursday, September 24, 6:00 p.m.

A special Henson edition of our Spin Series: enjoy a set from DJ Boyish Charm with dancing, mask-making, and 🧁birthday treats🧁 — dress up or dress down, and puppets welcome! Free with RSVP

Music in the Courtyard
Sunday, September 27, 4:00 p.m.

The band John Koozin and the Neighborhood pays homage to Henson favorites. Gather at 4:00 p.m. to sing “Happy Birthday!”

Free admission — just drop in!

Frog Choir with Dodie Whitaker
Saturday, September 26, 2:00 p.m.

Renowned Community Song Leader Dodie Whitaker will head up an interactive song circle featuring your puppet-y favorites!
Free with RSVP
 

Gaia Music Collective’s One-Day Choir: “I’m Going to Go Back There Someday”
Sunday, September 27, 1:30 p.m.

Join the choir for one day for an opportunity to build community, make new friends, and raise our powerfully diverse voices as one.
Free with RSVP

JIM HENSON''WORLD SCREENINGS AND PANELS

The Muppet Show: 50 Greatest Moments
Saturday, Sep. 26, 1:30 p.m.
Sunday, Sep. 27, 11:30 a.m.

Join Jim Henson Legacy President Craig Shemin to celebrate 50 years of The Muppet Show with the 50 greatest moments, all chosen by the community!

Get tickets (free for MoMI members)
 

60 Years of Jim Henson’s Time Piece
Saturday, Sep. 26, 12:00 p.m.

See Jim Henson's brilliant Oscar-nominated short film followed by an in-depth look at how it was produced with Karen Falk, Archives Director of The Jim Henson Company.

Get tickets (free for MoMI members)

Inspired by Jim: The Henson Performance Legacy
Saturday, Sep. 26, 4:00 p.m.

Puppeteers Martin P. Robinson, Ryan Dillon, Stephanie D’Abruzzo, John Tartaglia, and Jennifer Barnhart discuss Jim Henson’s legacy and his continuing influence on the puppetry community.

Get tickets (free for MoMI members)

Henson Sing-Along with Lucas Ross presented by The American Banjo Museum
Sunday, Sep. 27, 4:30 p.m.

Join musician Lucas Ross, banjo adviser to Kermit the Frog, for a sing-along session of Henson favorites.

Get tickets (free for MoMI members)

Tough Pigs Podcast Live: Inside Jim Henson’s Creature Shop
Sunday, Sep. 27, 1:30 p.m.

Puppet builders and designers Rollie Krewson, Melissa Creighton, Bonnie Erickson (pictured with Jim Henson), Jason Weber, Lara MacLean, and Fred Buchholz discuss their work creating some of the most iconic Henson characters.

Get tickets (free for MoMI members)

Did you know as a MoMI Member many of the ticketed events are free or discounted—and your benefits continue for a full year! Learn more and become a Member today.

FREE PANELS, DEMOS & MORE!

Henson-Inspired Art: Live Artist Demo
Saturday, Sep. 26, 3:00 p.m.

Join artists Louis Henry Mitchell, Richard Gomez, and Dave Hulteen, Jr. for this free live art-making session. Free with RSVP.

Henson Products – The Inside Story
Saturday, Sep. 26, 4:30 p.m.

Get the inside scoop on how your favorite merch gets made! Be sure to check out the Henson collectibles from our vendors in the Swa(m)p Meet. Free with RSVP.

Puppeteering at MoMI
Sunday, Sep. 27, 11:00 a.m.–1:00 p.m.

Led by puppeteer Brian T. Carson, this free workshop features a demonstration and optional audience participation in how to perform a hand and rod puppet on a tv monitor. Free admission — just drop in!
 

The Muppet Show: The Very Best Episodes
Friday, Sep. 25, 2:30 p.m.
Saturday, Sep. 26, 4:00 p.m.
Sunday, Sep. 27, 4:30 p.m.

On this 50th anniversary of The Muppet Show, check out a free marathon screening of the ten best episodes, as voted on by the fans. Free admission — just drop in!

Swa(m)p Meet: Henson Collectibles Marketplace
Sep. 26 & 27, 11:00–6:00 each day

See the personal collections of our guest vendors and take home your own piece of Jim Henson history! Collectibles will be available for purchase or to trade.
Free admission — just drop in!

Costume Contest
Sunday, Sep. 27, 3:00 p.m.

Dress as your favorite character, puppeteer, or make up your own! Enter as a group or an individual, or for the kids’ contest to win prizes from our esteemed judges, including special guest Kate Micucci, or just cheer on your fellow fans in this free event. Note: limited space for contestants, but costumes are welcome for all attendees. Enter the free contest here.

Free events are part of the Museum's Open Worlds 2026 programs | Lead sponsor: William Fox Jr. Foundation.