UID:467 | 2026-09-17 | "Onassis ONX" <contact@onx.studio> | OPEN CALL | ONX Seeds 🌱 What Remains Opening Reception 🪨 The Lumen Prize at Tate Modern

Join us at Onassis ONX on Sep 25 for the public opening, and more news from the ONX Community!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

View this email in your browser

Film still from Salón De Actos, courtesy of Alejandro Moreno Jashés

OPENING RSVP & MORE INFO

RSVPs for the opening of What Remains are now live! Please join us at Onassis ONX on Sep 25, from 6-8PM to celebrate the opening of a group exhibition bringing together seven artists from the Onassis ONX community who use technology to explore shifting relationships between people, machines, environments,  memory, and power.

Ugo Arsac - Margarita Athanasiou - Jiabao Li

Huntrezz Janos - Alejandro Moreno Jashés

Chloe Alexandra Thompson - Ashley Zelinskie

Photo: Playfool, [OP]erator (ONX Seeds) © Stephie Grape

OPEN CALL | ONX SEEDS 2026

SOFT CIRCUITS FOR HARD TIMES

MORE INFORMATION

How do we touch the digital? How do we reclaim the analog? How do we preserve the human?

As human-made books and images become the exception and algorithmic production becomes the norm, the digital is no longer confined to or emanating from the screen. It permeates the body, clothing, objects, sound, the street, the room, the community, while also returning to the screen as a space for storytelling, connection, and imagination. ONX Seeds is looking for projects that give these signals new forms: images, objects, environments, and rituals that can be seen, touched, worn, inhabited, played, and shared.

ONX Seeds invites new media creators, creative technologists, designers, game developers, and interdisciplinary teams to develop functional prototypes that move between the analog and the digital, the material and the networked, the personal and the collective.

The program supports early-stage, proof-of-concept projects that approach technology not as intangible infrastructure, but as a material for experience, imagination, and design: something that can be worn, touched, heard, inhabited, played, and activated with others.

Through a four-month artistic development program, ONX Seeds will support up to four prototypes with seed funding of up to €5,000, production, artistic, curatorial, and technical guidance, and access to the new ONX studio at Onassis Ready in Athens. Selected projects will evolve from initial concepts into artistically compelling, technologically functional prototypes and presented at the ONX Showcase in Athens in March 2027.

Applications close on October 26, 2026!

THE LIMINAL REVIEW 2026

PANEL DISCUSSION | SEPTEMBER 26, 2026

STARR CINEMA, TATE MODERN, LONDON

MORE INFORMATION

Next Saturday, the Lumen Prize is headed to the Tate Modern for the UK launch of The Liminal Review 2026, an annual trend report supported by Onassis ONX that draws on 2,225 submissions from 82 countries to trace the ideas emerging across art and technology.

The Evolving Studio: Artists Working with Technology

There will be a full day of programming spanning live work, artist presentations, and conversations from the Lumen community, alongside Goldsmiths, Restless Egg, Onassis ONX, and Muse Frame.

From 3-4PM, There will be a discussion featuring Dr Rachel Falconer in conversation with the following panelists, including Prodromos Tsiavos, the Head of Digital & Innovation at the Onassis Foundation. The discussion will explore this year's key themes, alongside presented works from 2026 Lumen Prize finalists.

Dr Marsha Bradfield

Central St Martins

Prodromos Tsiavos

Onassis ONX

Gillian Leitten

Lumen Prize

Dr Rachel Falconer

Goldsmiths University

COMMUNITY NEWS

El Mundo es Niña Live Performance by Liz N’ Bow with Times Square Alliance

Sep 23, 2026 at Times Square

On September 23, LIZN'BOW premiere a new live performance as the artists' bilingual feminist reggaeton band Niña. Embracing the visual language of reggaeton, advertising, celebrity, and mass media, the performance creates a space for queer joy, cultural resistance, and collectivity.

Opening the evening, Poncili Creación bring their exuberant larger-than-life foam puppet performance into Niñalandia, before reappearing throughout Liz and Bow's live performance and Midnight Moment. Together with LIZN'BOW's monumental inflatables, moving image, music, and performance, these encounters extend Niñalandia into the streets of Times Square, blurring the boundaries between fantasy and everyday public life.

More Information

Nancy Baker Cahill: Ecologies of Scale at the North Carolina Museum of Art

Opens Sep 26, on view until Jan 31, 2027

Nancy Baker Cahill: Ecologies of Scale bridges the Museum galleries and Park through Cahill’s unique blend of digital and analog media. This free exhibition includes site-specific experiences, video installations, sculptures, works on paper, and augmented reality (AR) projects that interweave natural and imagined worlds.

Outside of the East Building exhibition galleries, AR artwork Substrate is located in the Ellipse in the Museum Park. Using a free app, visitors are able to view and interact with the artwork from their smartphones or tablets while in the Ellipse. Seamlessly interweaving the digital world with the real world, Substrate invites viewers to add specific and personally relevant cultural artifacts (artworks, films, books, poems, songs) to a living archive.

More Information

Onassis ONX Showcase at Ars Electronica Recap

Last weekend, we had the pleasure of presenting a selection of four moving image works, including Explorers by Gabriel Barcia-Colombo, INTERSTITIAL MAINTENANCE by Peter Burr, Wahoo Blast by Eirini Linardaki and Forager: Spore to Forest Floor by Winslow Porter and Elie Zananiri.

Spanning video, game engine renderings and textile-based digital landscapes, the program reflected on community, ecology, the residue of procedural worlds and other systems shaping contemporary life.

More Information

A Creek Not There by Louise Lessél, on view in the group show A VIVID BLUR at SVA Chelsea Gallery

Open until Oct 30, 2026

The School of Visual Arts presents A Vivid Blur, a new exhibition of light-based works curated by alumnus Kacie Lees (MFA 2012 Fine Arts), on view Tuesday, September 1, through Friday, October 30, at the SVA Chelsea Gallery, 601 W 26th Street, 15th floor. The show features a dozen artists, including Lees, working across neon, holography, plasma, projection, and analog photography, in intriguing and wide-ranging installations.

More Information

ENTER: Bad Apple ANYTHING

Artifice NYC in conversation with Andrew Sun

RADAR is Artifice’s open submission channel for discovering work from the field. ENTER is their editorial series, where they go deeper into selected signals.

Andrew Sun’s Bad Apple ANYTHING was selected for RADAR last month. They revisited it after Andrew ran the workshop twice with his TouchDesigner community.

More Information

LA Dance Chronicle | MashUp Contemporary Dance Company Critiques Surveillance and Showcases Joy in Ecstatic Resistance

Featuring Ecstatic Resistance by Katherine Helen Fisher

A new review in the LA Dance Chronicle of Ecstatic Resistance, recently performed on Aug 30 in LA by Katherine Helen-Fisher. Photos from Chloe Pang.

“I had yet to see AI integrated into an artistic performance that genuinely moved me, but this usage was striking and singular.”

More Information

Copyright (C) 2026 Onassis Foundation USA. All rights reserved.