UID:469 | 2026-09-17 | "Performance Space New York" <info@performancespacenewyork.org> | 💥 Performance Space New York's 2026/2027 Season Opening 💥

Unveiling this season's OPEN ROOM installation "Cavernous Shoal" by Jesús Hilario Reyes!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

View this email in your browser

The 2026/2027 season at Performance Space New York opens with our 2026/2027 OPEN ROOM resident, Jesús Hilario-Reyes (aka MORENXXX), who transforms our lobby and community space into Cavernous Shoal – a site for listening, gathering, and experimental sonic interventions with a bespoke sound system crafted by Hilario-Reyes and a sculpture composed of mangroves. Across the residency, Hilario-Reyes will host open decks, curate performances, lead workshops, and invite community members to share in dialogue, exploration, and sonic mapping.

 

CAVERNOUS SHOAL by Jesús Hilario-Reyes

September 19, 2026–June 30, 2027

→  Shoal: shallow areas where ridges of land impede the movements of sailing vessels, the location of which erode and change over time; fluctuating boundary between land and sea.

Cavernous Shoal is an installation and gathering space conceived by Jesús Hilario-Reyes. The space features a bespoke sound system and a sculpture composed of mangrove roots. Hilario-Reyes understands sound systems functions as vessels for site-making. Wherever there is sound and the gathering of people, there can be a dancefloor. Regardless of place or geographical coordinates, one comes to recognize a sense of belonging through the collective presence of others.

The mangrove becomes its central figure because it constructs threshold worlds between tropical coastlines and the open ocean. Its exposed root systems weave into vast rhizomatic networks that become ecosystems in their own right. Within these porous boundaries, sediment is held in place, storm surges are softened, and countless species find shelter and the conditions necessary for growth. The mangrove suggests a formal understanding of the site as both organism and technology of holding. Hilario-Reyes finds a poetic refraction of this logic in the rhizomatic nature of DJ culture and in the strange, collective hold of nightlife.

“Within club culture and dance music, it is the sound system that constitutes the site itself. The dance floor is only the membrane upon which the traces of that encounter accumulate. In this sense, activations are always occurring, wherever people gather. This is especially true within diasporic contexts, where belonging is not secured by geography but produced through relation. Regardless of location or territorial coordinates, one comes to recognize a sense of place through the collective presence of others.” – Hilario-Reyes

Across the 2026/2027 season, Cavernous Shoal splits open the possibilities of gathering and listening–inviting community members to take part in the blending of frequencies, sounds, and sonic activations.

→ Jesús Hilario-Reyes (@morenxx_x) is an anti-disciplinary artist working at the intersections of sonic performance, land installation, and expanded cinema. OPEN ROOM is located on the 4th floor with elevator access, gender-neutral restrooms, free WiFi access, and open to the public. OPEN ROOM is a publicly accessible space used by members of our community for readings, meetings, book launches, hangouts, co-working, performances, and more. Each season, we invite an artist or collective in residence to re-envision the space and think about creating a gathering place for community and expanded programming.

 

SEASON OPENING CELEBRATION

Saturday, September 19th, 4P-9P

→ This Saturday, September 19th, 4P-9P, we unveil Cavernous Shoal by Jesús Hilario-Reyes. Join us for our season opening seafood boil in our downstairs courtyard with Raúl De Nieves and Stewart Ouu from 4P-7P as we transition to the OPEN ROOM opening performance by Ibrahima Mbaye (DOULA) from 7P-9P.

→ For the opening performance of Cavernous Shoal,  Ibrahima Mbaye (who DJ’s under the alias DOULA) activates Jesús Hilario-Reyes' installation with LIVING ROOM–a living audio environment and playable instrument for live performance. Mbaye arranges herself as vocalist among surfaces rigged to produce sound and samples when struck and applies electroacoustic methods with spiritual animist logic, charging the room with sonic “soul stuff” as she moves through the space rendering imaginary friends to aid the composition.

RSVP HERE

 

OPEN ROOM CALENDAR

→ Sat, September 19, 2026 | 7pm– Ibrahima Mbaye, LIVING ROOM

→ Tues, October 14, 2026 | 7pm – Yesenia Rojas 

→ Tues, October 27, 2026 | 6pm – Open Decks (Limited Slots)

→ Wednesday, November 11, 2026 | 6pm – Open Decks (Limited Slots)

→ Tuesday, November 17, 2026 | 7pm – Raúl Lopez (founder and lead designer of LUAR), Jesús Hilario-Reyes, and Carina del Valle Schorske, Manufacturing Cunt: A conversation about the influence of Nightlife in the Latinx and fashion community

→ Tues, December 1, 2026 | 6pm – Open Decks (Limited Slots)

OPEN ROOM ACTIVATIONS

OPEN DECKS SIGN-UP

 

 

Copyright (C) 2026 PERFORMANCE SPACE NEW YORK. All rights reserved.