UID:470 | 2026-09-17 | "Knockdown Center" <mail@knockdowncenter.com> | Weekly Newsletter 133

Knock, Knock

Knock Knock #133
Kettama takes over

On Wednesday, October 7th, Kettama kicks off a run of three sold out shows in the Main Hall. Presented by RUSH, these parties showcase the Irish phenom playing open-to-close each night, putting to rest any doubt that he has officially arrived as a major force on the global stage. It’s a remarkable accomplishment and a record for the venue; he stands as the first DJ to command that number of back-to-back sold out nights. Kattama arrives on the heels of 2025’s Archangel - his debut LP - ready to saturate the room with pure, bombastic emotion. It’s his calling card and he knows it. He once told Mixmag “I know my strong points. It’s the big chords and vocals.” We won’t argue. With that in mind, let’s explore some of his best tracks. 

KETTAMA

“It Gets Better (Forever Mix)”

Kettama’s signature song begins with a mantra of raw acceptance: “I can’t go back / I must go on.” Who hasn’t been there, in that moment of recognition when an untenable present rams headfirst into an uncertain future? This emotional fulcrum point has been a goldmine for Kettama, whose work largely addresses that exhilarating rush of unfiltered experience that comes with transition, with loss and with reckoning.

Musically, this one captures everything that’s great about his output. It’s ethereal and banging, wistful and tough all at once. The gauche majesty of trance is marshalled in service of huge singalong moments that captures pure yearning with elegant confidence. The video is shot in POV, running through an endless succession of flights, drinks, beaches, night walks to the club, and one visit to the aquarium, while the verse hits some of the same snotty, heartfelt notes that made Underworld iconic. It’s no wonder that Kettama has collaborated with Fred, Again… While FA’s work is defined by a similar impulse towards heartstring-pulling tenderness, Kettama grounds his music in bawdry, all-out partying. Call him the people’s champ. 

“Comes and Goes”

If you liked “It Gets Better,” you’ll love “Comes and Goes.” Launching with a rowdy break and exquisite rave stabs, it initially calls to find the Big Beat craze that exploded at the end of the ‘90s. But then Kettama ups the ante with a sugar-rush synth line and vocal performance that may be the best of his career to date. Rumors of trance’s death are proven to be greatly overstated, as the lead melody channels the much-beloved, much-maligned genre with complete earnestness. If anything, he outdoes himself when you compare this to “It Gets Better.” When Kettama sings the opening line - “Like a bad song that you want to sing at the top of your lungs / Like the one thing you never did, it won't leave you alone” - overtop a melody so massive it could only feel at home in a stadium, one wonders if he’s a Susan Sontag fan. It’s impossible not to be reminded of this line from her seminal essay “On Camp:”

Kettama

“Time liberates the work of art from moral relevance, delivering it over to the Camp sensibility. Another effect: time contracts the sphere of banality. (Banality is, strictly speaking, always a category of the contemporary.) What was banal can, with the passage of time, become fantastic.”

In this moment, all the things that made trance a critical bête noire in its heyday are transmuted into assets of unbridled expression. Even the lyrics, which celebrate the freedom that comes from unmooring yourself from propriety and the prison of taste, echo the ethos. Kettama here positions himself as a sort of absolving angel, reassuring the listener that, no matter how confusing or despairing life has become, no matter how much you may feel yourself to be in freefall, that on an essential level it is good to be alive, and that you are loved. 

“Sort It Out”

“Sort It Out,” Kettama’s album-closing collaboration with Clouds, is more of a classic “choon” than the previous two. A thundering dancefloor monster, it keeps the vocals to sample-length snippets and pivots on a giant, chord-centric build-and-drop. Amidst the melee, a chopped vocal taunts “now that’s what you call hardcore.” “Hardcore” is a word of many meanings, but in this case we’re located firmly in what the lauded British music writer/historian Simon Reynolds dubbed “the hardcore continuum.” Identifying a musical lineage in the UK that transcended the moment-to-moment microgenre evolutions, Reynolds attempted to identify a core quality that unified so much electronic music from his home country:

“I call it a ‘continuum’ because that’s what it is: a musical tradition/subcultural tribe that’s managed to hold it together for nearly 20 years now, negotiating drastic stylistic shifts and significant changes in technology, drugs, and the social/racial composition of its own population. And I call it ‘Hardcore’ because the tradition started to take shape circa 1990 with what people called Hardcore Techno or Hardcore Rave, or sometimes simply Ardkore. These early sounds were the first time that the UK came up with its own unique mutant versions of House and Techno (ironically by adding elements from dub reggae, dancehall, and hiphop that weren’t British in origin, but equally would never have been let into the mix back in Chicago and Detroit). From Jungle and 2-step to today’s Grime and Bassline, the basic parameters of the music have stayed the same as they were in the early Hardcore, although the relative balance of various sources (reggae, rap, R&B, Eurotechno, etc) has shifted, and the beats-per-minute rate has fluctuated wildly. Those core elements are: beat-science seeking the intersection between ‘fucked up’ and ‘groovy’; dark bass pressure; MCs chatting fast over live-mixed DJ sets; samples and arrangement ideas inspired by pulp soundtracks and orchestrated pop. In a profound sense, underneath two decades of relentless sonic mutation, this is the same music, the same culture.”

He could be talking directly about Kettama, and in particular about this track. It’s been said that his music can be nostalgic, and in this particular instance there is an inarguable throwback quality. But you could also see Kettama as a torchbearer for an approach that remains evergreen, a deeply felt, immediately recognizable ethos rooted in a national/cultural sensibility that, no matter how much you analyze it, can never be precisely defined. There’s no word in music theory for such a quality, but there is a word many fans use every day which perfectly describes it: soul. 

Kettama headlines the Main Hall for RUSH on October 7-8-9.   

KETTAMA

KDC MERCH

Official merch now available—limited shirts, sweatshirts, hats, totes and more.

Free shipping on all orders over $100. Available only on our website. 

SHOP ALL

HONEY DIJON: DAY & NIGHT

OCTOBER 10

All hail Queen Honey Dijon.

TICKETS

RUSH PRESENTS: FUNK TRIBU

OCTOBER 17

Funk Tribu curates a full-venue, day-into-night takeover with RUSH.

TICKETS