UID:475 | 2026-09-18 | "Pioneer Works Broadcast" <pioneerworksbroadcast@substack.com> | Broadcast Goes Under

Sea urchins, sinking shores, and the art of floating
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Forwarded this email? Subscribe here for more

BROADCAST GOES UNDER

SEA URCHINS, SINKING SHORES, AND THE ART OF FLOATING

Pioneer Works

Sep 18

 

READ IN APP

 

William Trost Williams, Near Land’s End, Cornwall, 1879.

After last week’s plunge into psychoanalysis, melting ice, and manta rays, OCEANS returns with three new dispatches. Beatrice Steinert finds a surprising guide to pregnancy in the transformations of sea urchins, Caroline Tracey considers the physics and poetics of buoyancy, and Brad Bolman traces the disappearance of coastal Louisiana, asking what it would take to meet NOLA’s flooded future with something other than business as usual.

There’s more OCEANS ahead. This Tuesday, Ayana Elizabeth Johnson hosts The Ocean Frontier, a conversation on the promises and perils of taking the clean-energy and tech boom offshore. And on Friday, FLOODLINES gathers Hanif Abdurraqib, Hurray for the Riff Raff, Eileen Myles, and a community of artists and scientists to consider rising waters, urban health, and the futures of waterfront cities.

----------------------------------------

Where Cities and Oceans Meet
By Brad Bolman

Where does Louisiana end, and the ocean begin? And where will New Orleans end, when the ocean gradually swallows up the land around us?

In May, a study from environmental scientists including Torbjörn Törnqvist of Tulane, where I also teach, set off a storm in this diminishing city, which floats perilously above a bend in the Mississippi and the once and former Gulf of Mexico. The message was clear: New Orleans has passed a “point of no return.” If land here has always been the site of a pyrrhic struggle to dry an insatiably wet place, it is clear now that the waters are winning—have won—and that much of what is dry will disappear against the steady, forward march of the ocean. A relocation, whether forced or voluntary, is the only responsible plan, the scientists suggested, for this miraculous city that environmental historian Craig Colten called “an unnatural metropolis.”

The study catapulted across world media. I first saw it, like many people, in The Guardian. But unlike many readers, I encountered it while sitting in an apartment where the floors dip toward the watery earth. Friends far and wide asked me what it felt like to live in a disappearing place. And what could I say? Just the day before, my partner and I had been finalizing an offer on a home in one of the neighborhoods that didn’t flood during Katrina, a home beyond our means but within our universe of possibility. Yet water has a way of washing away possibility here, we’ve learned.

Read More

----------------------------------------

On Metamorphosis
By Beatrice Steinert

Metamorphosis, or the act of changing in form, is a feature of biology across the tree of life. More than half of all known animals—including flies, fish, salamanders, butterflies, corals, and barnacles, among others—completely metamorphose at least once in their lives and even more undergo similarly dramatic alterations. In the ocean, which makes up approximately 70 percent of our earth’s surface, metamorphosis is an even more common developmental trajectory among invertebrate species. For these creatures, shifts into and out of distinct life cycle phases, specialized for particular needs and behaviors, are quick and dramatic. These transfigurations are triggered by a flooding of the body with hormones, chemical cues that initiate radically new developmental processes. Alternate genes are activated, cells are absorbed or remodeled, and existing tissues or organs modified to prepare for the new conditions of the organism’s life.

While biology is unequipped to provide a definitive answer as to why metamorphosis has evolved as such a common strategy, it is clear that this transformation lets animals explore and adapt to new habitats, to expand their worlds beyond those in which they started out. And more than any other biological process I’ve encountered, through both research and lived experience, metamorphosis troubles the line we are often quick to draw between self and other. This far-reaching facet of life calls into question what exactly it means to be an individual.

Read More

----------------------------------------

Buoyancy
By Caroline Tracey

As I glided into the water, I realized nearly immediately that my fantasy of transferring lap strokes to the ocean was foolish. The tide’s constant force worked at a different rhythm than my front crawl. Another unusual feature of the Gulf of California is its particularly forceful tide. All the energy of the Pacific is funneled into a narrow space. There’s also something called resonance, a term I loved for its evocative name but struggled to fully wrap my head around: The wavelengths of the currents align with the bay’s own frequencies, effectively joining forces and making the tide far more dramatic than that of an ordinary shore.

It wasn’t that I couldn’t have muscled through, but that suddenly it didn’t feel like the right thing to do. I switched to a weak breaststroke that allowed me to better enter the sea’s rhythm, floating over each crest as it came. Then, I rolled over to take in the evening sky, the ambient noise, the salty, humid smell. Birds flew overhead and I was pleased to discover that I knew their names: Brown Pelican. Magnificent Frigatebird. Jacques Cousteau famously called the Gulf of California the “aquarium of the world,” and I liked imagining myself as part of its richness—one-third of the world’s marine mammal species, 90 species of fish, and over 500 species of birds, not to mention the crustaceans and the echinoderms, like starfish and sea cucumbers.

Read More

SCIENCE & SOCIETY: THE OCEAN FRONTIER

Tuesday, September 22 at 7 pm

The ocean holds a key to our climate future—if we act wisely. In this episode of Science & Society, we delve into questions of industrializing the ocean, including deep sea mining and offshore renewable energy infrastructure, touching on scientific, social, and policy aspects. Marine biologist and policy expert Ayana Elizabeth Johnson hosts deep-sea biologist Dr. Diva Amon and climate investor Ben Wolkon for a conversation that spans science, policy, and the stakes of getting this wrong.

RSVP

----------------------------------------

FLOODLINES: WHERE CITIES AND OCEANS MEET

Friday, September 25 at 6 pm

Presented in partnership with the Wellcome Trust, FLOODLINES is an evening of music, poetry, science, and conversation about what happens when waters rise and how cities heal. Here, the flood is both a literal threat and a metaphor for social and infrastructural saturation.

Hosted by the acclaimed writer Hanif Abdurraqib, with music by Hurray for the Riff Raff and poetry from Eileen Myles, the night will feature curator and design theorist Paola Antonelli leading a conversation with leading scientists, filmmakers, architects, and activists, along with libations and installations in the garden and a DJ set by Madame Gandhi.

RSVP

You can still find Pioneer Works Broadcast at our digital home and in print. Each week we’ll send our latest pieces directly to your inbox, featuring new work from contributors across disciplines—reflections from authors like Zadie Smith and scientists like Sir Roger Penrose; dialogues with Miranda July, Elif Batuman, and Brian Greene; plus musings about lunar time, reality’s hidden matrix, and the sadomasochism of literary criticism.

Subscribe to Pioneer Works on YouTube for the best of our videos—from never-before-seen concerts to debates between world-renowned scientists, conversations with celebrated novelists, and behind-the-scenes footage of artists at work.

Pioneer Works Broadcast gratefully acknowledges support from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Program in Public Understanding of Science and Technology.

We believe Broadcast should be available to everyone. If you value what we do, please consider supporting us with a donation.

Upgrade your subscription

 

Like

Comment

Restack

 

© 2026 Pioneer Works Broadcast
159 Pioneer Street, Brooklyn, NY 11231