UID:480 | 2026-09-18 | "Swiss Institute / Contemporary Art" <info@swissinstitute.net> | Upcoming | SI Offsite | Rafał Skoczek: Kino Drift | Public Program Series

UPCOMING

EXHIBITIONS

SI OFFSITE | RAFAŁ SKOCZEK: KINO DRIFT

WED SEP 23—SAT NOV 14 2026

Opening Reception:

Wednesday, September 23

6–8PM

WSA

161 Water Street, 7th Floor

New York, NY 10038

Please join us for the opening of Kino Drift, an off-site project by artist Rafał Skoczek. Conceived as a temporary exhibition space and venue for self-organized cultural activity, Kino Drift brings together film screenings, concerts, readings, publications, and artworks within an environment that continuously shifts over the course of its duration.

Skoczek’s practice moves between painting, exhibition-making, publishing, music, and collaborative programming, often taking shape through social and infrastructural forms. For Kino Drift, he transforms an artist studio into a site for gathering and exchange, drawing on a network of ongoing projects, friendships, and affinities. Part cinema, part library, part venue, the exhibition develops progressively throughout its duration, functioning less as a static presentation than as an evolving set of conditions.

Learn more.

PROGRAMS

KINO DRIFT | PUBLIC PROGRAM SERIES

SEP - NOV 2026

Kino Drift will host a rotating program of screenings, performances, reading groups, and listening sessions over the course of the exhibition.

For more information on the public program series, see here (

CONCERT | FOR THE AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITY OF PROSFYGIKA

SAT SEP 26 2026, 8:00PM

Doors open: 7PM

Concert: 8PM

SI is pleased to present a series of live performances by multiple music bands to honor and support Prosfygika, the largest residential squat in Europe. The concert features performances by Plektani, Eulogy, Persona, Cruciform, and End State.

Built in the 1930s as a Bauhaus housing complex in the heart of Athens, Prosfygika originally comprised 228 apartments of 55 m² each, constructed to house Greek refugees following the First World War. The complex was later expropriated by the state for demolition; once deemed worthy of preservation, its status remained unresolved for over two decades.

Located on Alexandras Avenue, Prosfygika is today a self-managed, solidarity-based community and the only de facto example of social housing in a country with no public housing stock. The complex shelters more than 400 residents from 27 countries, including 50 minors, alongside elderly and other vulnerable individuals. Left to decay by the state for decades, it has been sustained by its residents as a model of mutual aid and urban resistance. Current redevelopment plans, driven by processes of gentrification and real estate speculation, threaten the community with mass eviction.

Please RSVP to rsvp@swissinstitute.net.

Swiss Institute (SI) is an independent non-profit contemporary art institution dedicated to promoting forward-thinking and experimental art making through innovative exhibitions, education, and programs.

Reopening 2027

Admission is always free

250 Bowery

New York, NY 10012

+1 (212) 925-2035

info@swissinstitute.net

@swissinstitute

swissinstitute.net

View email in browser

Forward this email