UID:481 | 2026-09-18 | "Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture" <schomburgsociety@email.nypl.org> | Honor NYPL's Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture with a matched gift

We're still short of our goal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               

View in browser Forward

Donate

"With this funding, we're not just giving this building a face lift; we're making a critical investment in our history and culture." —Governor Kathy Hochul

NYPL's Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture is immensely grateful to have the support of Governor Kathy Hochul and New York State for our home in Harlem. Thanks to a generous state investment, we will refurbish our facade and conduct other safety enhancements and energy-saving improvements throughout the building. All of our physical repairs are done with the purpose of protecting our most important treasures inside: our world-renowned archives of 11 million items of Black and African diasporic culture.

Last year, we celebrated our historic 100th anniversary. This year, as we move further into our new century, we want to be certain that we have the funds necessary to preserve our existing archival treasures as we continue to expand our collections with more artifacts that illuminate Black history and culture. That's why we've set an ambitious goal to raise $50,000 for our preservation efforts by midnight tonight. But we can't reach our goal without help from Library supporters like you. Make a matched gift now and double your support for collecting, preserving, and sharing the richness of Black history and culture.

Match my gift

Our archives are at the heart of everything we do at the Schomburg Center. The wealth of our collections allows us to produce concerts, exhibitions, and public programs that amplify the voices of Black creators, welcome scholars and visitors from around the world, offer resources such as our Black History Curriculum Guides, inspire the next generation of Black brilliance through educational offerings like our Junior Scholars Program, and so much more.

Can we count on you to to make your first-ever gift to the Schomburg Center and help protect Black history and culture for this generation and future generations? Any contribution you make now will go twice as far towards preserving and growing our collections. When you do, we'll send you an exclusive invitation to tour our archives in the spring and experience firsthand what you make possible for anyone with a library card to discover.

As we look ahead to our next 100 years, we thank you for your support and for helping to protect Black history and shape the future of Black culture.

With gratitude,

Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture

Donate today and receive an exclusive invitation to tour our world-renowned archives in spring 2027.
 

Match my gift

----------------------------------------