UID:482 | 2026-09-18 | "Wendy's Subway" <info@wendyssubway.com> | Printed Matter's NY Art Book Fair 2026

Find us at Booth Q12.

PRINTED MATTER’S NY ART BOOK FAIR

September 24–27

Location

MoMA PS1
22-25 Jackson Avenue
Queens, NY 11001
Booth Q12

Hours

Thursday, September 24
7–10pm (opening, ticketed $60)

Friday, September 25
12–7pm (ticketed $10)

Saturday, September 26
10am–7pm (ticketed $10)

Sunday, September 27
12–6pm (ticketed $10)

Tickets here.

About the fair

Initiated in 2006, the NY Art Book Fair is an event where artists’ book publishers distribute their work, connect with broad audiences, and nurture new and longstanding relationships, with many artists responding directly to today’s challenging political and social landscape. NYABF 2026 will feature over 310 exhibitors, including interdisciplinary artistic practices, collectives, small presses, self-publishing artists, rare book dealers, institutions, and distributors. NYABF also offers a discursive platform for engagement in the field of artists’ book publishing through book launches, lectures, exhibitions, discussions, performances, and workshops.

SMLXL: Publishing by Artists, Collectives, Institutions, and Networks
With Laura Coombs, Yusuf Hassan, Siddhartha Lokanandi, Manuel Raeder, and Rachel Valinsky
The Classroom at the New York Art Book Fair
Saturday September 26, 10:30am–12pm

Ulises, a Philadelphia-based bookshop and project space dedicated to artists’ books and independent publishing, hosts a conversation around present conditions of independent publishing and cultural production through the lens of scale—from a single artist and the collective, to institutions and networks. This session brings together Yusuf Hassan (BlackMass Publishing), Manuel Raeder (BOM DIA), Rachel Valinsky (Wendy’s Subway), Siddhartha Lokanandi (Hopscotch Reading Room), and Laura Coombs (designer of Cyberfeminism Index and A Sexual History of the Internet). Inspired by the iconic, unruly Rem Koolhaas and Bruce Mau book S,M,L,XL, the panel interrogates the ways in which scale affects and bleeds across categories in contemporary publishing, often informing the core identities of those involved. Presented by Ulises and The Goethe-Institut-New York. 

Register here.

Book Signing
Booth Q12
Saturday, September 26, 4–5pm

Gerund Violence by Claudia Pagès Rabal, co-published with the Center for Experimental Lectures

More information here.

Images, in order of appearance:

Printed Matter's NY Art Book Fair graphic

Wendy’s Subway is a reading room, writing space, and independent publisher in Bushwick, Brooklyn. We support emerging artists and writers in making experimental, urgent work and create alternative modes for learning and thinking in community. Wendy’s Subway is dedicated to encouraging creative, critical, and discursive engagement with arts and literature. We prioritize collaboration and horizontal decision-making in our work towards being a responsive and sustainable organization.

Our interdisciplinary program includes free readings, talks, performances, and reading groups, as well as sliding-scale writing workshops and intensives. We offer residencies designed to uplift artistic and scholarly research, archival and library projects, and independent publishing practices. Our multi-series publishing initiative includes artists’ books, poetic texts, and hybrid-genre works by time-based artists. Our non-circulating library holds a collection of over 3,000 titles, ranging from poetry and fiction, to criticism and art books.

To become a member, make book donations, or ask a question, email: info@wendyssubway.com.

For more information visit: wendyssubway.com.