UID:486 | 2026-09-18 | "MoMI Film" <info@movingimage.org> | Experience Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan in 35mm alongside a bonus Star Trek episode!

Film Highlight, September 18, 2026

View this email in your browser

FILM HIGHLIGHT | September 18, 2026

Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan

Even nearly 45 years later, the masterful Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan has yet to be surpassed as the greatest movie in the ever-expanding franchise. In this stunning 1982 sci-fi spectacle, the widely beloved crown jewel of the films starring the original cast of the Star Trek  television series, James T. Kirk (William Shatner), now an admiral in Starfleet, wrestles with life after adventure while on what may be the final mission in his storied career, overseeing the training of the next generation of explorers to boldly go… Aided by Mr. Spock (Leonard Nimoy) and the rest of the Star Trek crew, Kirk once again takes command of the USS Enterprise after another Federation starship and its crew are captured by Khan Noonien Singh, and a ghost from Kirk’s past who will stop at nothing for vengeance. Featuring dazzling special effects, the film is featured as part of our ongoing series Practical Magic.

As a celebration of 60 years of Star Trek, we’re pleased to present Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan in 35mm, preceded by “Space Seed” from the original Star Trek series (Season 1, Episode 22), which also featured the villainous warlord Khan. One show only: Sunday, September 20, at noon.

Get tickets

Plus, if you're in the mood for more Star Trek, visit our core exhibition Behind the Screen to see a collection of Star Trek licensed merchandise, including action figures, dolls, toys, and other collectibles!

MoMI members receive $7 tickets for regular screenings, free tickets to many films each month (including this one!), and 25% off special screening tickets; plus unlimited free gallery admission. Become a member today!

NOW SHOWING

Friday, September 18
7:00 p.m. House of Dreams (Disreputable Cinema)
7:00 p.m. Climate Film Festival Opening Night: House of Fish with director in person + reception – sold out / standby only (Science on Screen)

Saturday, September 19
12:00 p.m. Your Name. (10th Anniversary) (World of Animation)
2:30 p.m. Wild Inside – free screening with Q&A (Open Worlds: Science / Wild City)

Sunday, September 20
12:00 p.m. Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan + "Space Seed" (Practical Magic)
2:00 p.m. Your Name. (10th Anniversary) (World of Animation)
3:00 p.m. The Birds (Practical Magic)

Next week: Jim Henson's Time Piece, the best Muppet Show episodes, and more, as part of our four-day celebration of Henson's work on the occasion of what would have been his 90th birthday! Plus, encores of The Birds and Dead Ringers. See schedule.

Ticket policy: Tickets are required for each individual screening and are available in advance online or in person at the door. Please note that paid Museum admission includes a ticket to a regular same-day screening (if one is offered that day; does not apply to special screenings). When you check in at the front desk simply request a film ticket. Tickets are distributed first-come, first-served.

Please consider making a donation to MoMI. Everything we do is possible because of the generosity of you and the entire MoMI community! 

Forward