UID:488 | 2026-09-18 | "Japan Society" <info@japansociety.org> | Keigo Shinzo’s Hirayasumi Comes to Life 🚲

RSVP for a world-first preview of Hirayasumi Episode 1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

View with images

Hirayasumi Advanced Screening + Q&A with

Series Composer Kaori Sawada and Producer Junichi Katsutani

Wednesday, October 7, 7 pm

Join Japan Society and VIZ for a preview of the highly anticipated anime adaptation of Hirayasumi—three months before its broadcast debut in Japan. Attendees will view a work-in-progress preview of Episode 1 directly from the team at Production +h.

Get Tickets→

Keigo Shinzo's award-winning manga, Hirayasumi is a warm hug of a story following carefree Hiroto Ikuta. Unburdened by career ambitions or long-term plans, Hiroto offers a heart-warming perspective on life, family, and navigating modern anxiety.

 

Hirayasumi screening is presented by Japan Society in collaboration with VIZ.

Film programs are generously supported by Anime NYC and ORIX Corporation USA. Endowment support is provided by the Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Endowment Fund and The John and Miyoko Davey Endowment Fund. Additional season support is provided by Jono Abrams and Elizabeth Linn, Ayumi Arafune, Darin Arita and Kanako Arita, Mike Audet, Shizuka Bernstein, Gabriel Bianconi, Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Catanzaro, The Globus Family, Satoshi Harris-Koizumi, Kazumi Hayama, George and Hillary Hirose, Timothy Hower, Eriko Ishikawa, Akiko Koide and Shohei Koide, Marc Mailhot, Kurt Nickels, David Toberisky, Joseph Rajaratnam and Dharshini Iolanthe Sivakumaran, the Japan Society Film Council, and other Film supporters.

Transportation assistance is provided by Japan Airlines, the official Japanese airline sponsor of Japan Society Film Program. Housing assistance is provided by the Prince Kitano New York, the official hotel sponsor of Japan Society Film Program.

Japan Society’s 4K Projector is made possible through the generosity of the following donors: Crunchyroll, Mike Audet, The Globus Family, Darin Arita, Carlo Bolivar, Gregory Corsico IHO RJ Hogan, Vincent Covello and Carol Mandel, Laurel Gonsalves, George and Hillary Hirose, Ida Law, Anne-Marie Peeters, and Joseph Rajaratnam and Dharshini Iolanthe Sivakumaran, Kimberly A. Woodward, and the New York State Council on the Arts with the support of the Office of the Governor and the New York State Legislature.

Support for cultural programs is provided by Anime NYC, the Sandy Heck Lecture Fund, Jean Fan Colson and Daniel Colson, Seth A. Coren, and Faith L. Taylor.

Japan Society’s arts and culture programs are made possible by the New York State Council on the Arts, with the support of the Office of the Governor and the New York State Legislature; in part by public funds from the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs in partnership with the City Council; and by the Hotsuki Family Foundation.

Additional support is provided by Sharp Imaging & Information Company of America and a grant from The Venable Foundation.

Japan Society's 120th anniversary initiatives and related programs are generously supported by Champion Sponsor, MUFG Bank, Ltd.; Advocate Sponsors, Mizuho Americas and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation; and Friend Sponsors, Mitsubishi Corporation (Americas), Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., and Sumitomo Corporation of Americas.

©Keigo Shinzo/Shogakukan/Hirayasumi Project

Japan Society
333 East 47th Street

New York, NY 10017

Join | Support | Calendar | Location & Hours | Privacy Policy