UID:494 | 2026-09-19 | "Colin Vanderburg, n+1" <editors@nplusonemag.com> | Hear me out

In our latest issue: an essay on audiophilia and its sufferers

View this email in your browser

----------------------------------------

Magazine              Online Only              Bookstore              Events              Donate              Subscribe!

Dear readers,

I am a sick man. Those are the famous first words spoken in Dostoevsky’s Notes from Underground—and, much less famously, by me, at the start of my essay in the new issue of n+1. For the Underground Man, the disease was the deep alienation of disaffected literary intellectuals in Tsarist Russia; for me, it’s something a little simpler—sound. My name is Colin, and I’m an audiophile.

If you have an audiophile in your life, you might know that the condition’s chief symptom is an obsessive, even crazed quest for high-fidelity sound, powered by exotic, often eyewateringly expensive audio gear: high-wattage amplifiers, golfcart-size speakers, bespoke turntables, and much more. I’ve suffered from this ailment for years. “My symptoms are apparent, their causes obscure,” I confide in the essay. “What, after all, do we love when we love sound?”

As an editor at n+1, I’m not in the habit of promoting my own work. But if you’ll indulge me, I like to think this piece hits a signature n+1 beat: a roving mix of first-person confession, amateur anthropology, and subcultural chronicle. You can accompany me to the New York International Audio Show (held, of course, in New Jersey), where I heard sleek, imposing, half-a-million-dollar speakers playing what I can only describe as “gastric, Baltic Coldplay.” You can venture, if you dare, into internecine rifts and bitter schisms inside the audiophile community (are you a Golden Ear, or a Meter Reader?). Above all, you can join me in pursuing—and sometimes finding—audio playback so sonically sublime that it seems to bend time itself.

But this isn’t, thank God, just a piece about me. You’ll meet some real characters—like engineer Emery Cook, proprietor of the first audiophile record label, whose whizbang audio-verité LPs (titles include Rail Dynamics and Mexican Firecrackers) were runaway hits in the 1950s; a vintage-speaker tinkerer who decries the “SCAM” of stereo and extols the sweet simplicity of mono; and a friend of mine who runs an unrivaled public archive of 78 RPM jazz and blues records, with a gloriously ancient hi-fi rig to match. (You’ll also meet a fictional character, the charmingly rumpled, amplifier-building protagonist of what is, for my money, the only great audiophile novel, by Chinese author Ge Fei.)

“Heaven’s Melodic Strains” is now out from behind the paywall on our website. I’d love for you to read it. And while you’re at it, you can subscribe to n+1, for a cool 20% discount with the checkout code POWERPLAY. So hear me out—I promise I’m not contagious.

Yours,
Colin Vanderburg
Senior Editor, n+1

Also in n+1’s Fall issue

LEIGH CLAIRE LA BERGE

MICHEL AND MOM

“Her favorite author is Fuk-Yoo. The great French fi-lo-sof, My-Shell Fuk-Yoo.” 
 

Read More

WALKER CAPLAN

ATTENTION

When an idea felt a little stupid, that meant it contained a powerful truth, one so true it didn’t need to be said.
 

Read More

AARON JAKES

THE RIGHT REFORM RABBI

Hers is a strategy of demanding more empathy while abjuring any radical challenge to the status quo.
 

Read More