UID:495 | 2026-09-19 | "The Helix Center" <info@helixcenter.org> | It's About TIME

TODAY @ 1:30PM ET

TODAY AT 1:30PM ET
FREE & OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
NO REGISTRATION
SEATING IS FIRST COME, FIRST SERVED
CLICK HERE FOR EVENT DETAILS

CANNOT MAKE IT IN PERSON?
CLICK HERE FOR SIMULCAST LIVESTREAM

It's About TIME 
19 September 2026
247 East 82nd Street
New York, NY 10028
 

 

NOTE: Event starts at 1:30pm

Intangible as it is there are many ways to describe Time’s properties: to sense it, to spend it, to curse it. There is the time it takes to sink 7 in the corner pocket, and the time even to imagine doing it. And while Kant insisted it is, along with space, a pure form of intuition, our will o’ the wisp grasp on time often doesn’t feel so very “intuitive,” certainly not in the everyday sense of that term. Everywhere, nowhere and always, we seem stuck, like Zeno and his impossibly immobile arrow, with an arrow of time that points but never moves.

Whence that arrow? A prevailing view among philosophers of physics is associated with David Albert. He provides an account as follows: the Universe is born in a state of freakishly low entropy; the Laws of Motion unfold from there, with Statistical Mechanics depicting how things move inexorably toward ever more probable states. The past is that direction where we find the artefacts of this evolution, the way dust settling in a room measures when it was last cleaned.  

Some take this view as incomplete, largely because it does not line up well with how we experience it, our “intuition” of time’s seamless passage. The division of time into units, even allowing for infinitesimal units, relies on a kind of mathematization of time; stepwise and discrete. Yet the flow of time feels continuous and unbroken. If anything, it is Time’s fluidity that captures our intuition. Writers, poets, and philosophers like Henri Bergson, express this “anti-scientistic” sentiment most strongly, including in Bergson’s famous encounter with Albert Einstein. Can anything meaningful still be gained by playing these two views off against each other? Can this lead to a synthesis that artists, psychologists, physicists, and philosophers can all agree with? Need they all agree?

These are the questions we hope to address, if Time allows (!), in this roundtable.

 

This roundtable will also be streamed live and can be watched on Youtube.
 

Click Here For Event Details and Participant List
 

THE PARTICIPANTS

Maria Balcells is an Associate Professor of Philosophy at Bucknell University. Her work centers on understanding the tension between our experience of a dynamic world in which time passes and an image of time consistent with our best science, whereby objects and event exist equally and eternally in a seemingly static tapestry of spacetime. She utilizes research across a variety of disciplines including cognitive science, physics, and, more recently, anthropology and Indigenous philosophies. In the past, she has served as vice-president for the Philosophy of Time Society. She received her Ph.D. from the University of Illinois at Chicago and her B.A. from Rutgers University.
 

Jacob Barandes is a philosopher of physics at Harvard University, with faculty appointments in both the Department of Philosophy and the Department of Physics. His research spans quantum foundations, causation, probability, spacetime, and laws of nature. He is especially interested in interpretations of quantum theory, the measurement problem, and what our best physical theories have to tell us about ongoing debates in metaphysics. He is a Faculty Affiliate with Harvard’s Black Hole Initiative, a Fellow of the John Bell Institute, founder/organizer of the annual New England Workshop on the History and Philosophy of Physics (NEWHPP), and co-founder/organizer of the Boston Network for History and Philosophy of Physics (BNHPP). His website is at jacobbarandes.com.
 

Claudia Brodsky earned her B.A. in Comparative Literature magna cum laude from Harvard, where she studied with Octavio Paz, Dorrit Cohn, Elizabeth Bishop, Roberto Unger, Robert Fitzgerald, Juan Marechal, and William Alfred, and was awarded a de Karman Fellowship for Outstanding Achievement in the Humanities.  She received a German Govt./DAAD Fellowship for postgraduate study in German philosophy and literature at Freiburg, i. Br., and subsequently taught German and co-wrote a syndicated educational English-Portuguese language series for the Carlos Chagas and Ford Foundations in São Paulo, Brazil.  She earned her Ph.D. with distinction in Comparative Literature from Yale, where she studied with Paul de Man, Peter Demetz, Frederic Jameson, Geoffrey Hartman, Jacques Derrida, Thomas Greene, J. Hillis Miller, Harold Bloom, and Peter Brooks, and was awarded a Darling Fellowship for Excellence in the Humanities, Danforth and Whiting Fellowships, and a DAAD Fellowship to study Goethe with Wolfgang Frühwald in Munich. She taught literature and language in the Yale English and German Depts. and Intensive Portuguese at the Yale Summer Language Institute while a graduate student; appointed Asst. Professor of German at Yale in 1984, she was recruited the same year to join the Dept. of Comparative Literature at Princeton, where she has taught since 1985. 

While at Princeton she was elected Directeur de Programme at the Collège International de Philosophie, Paris, received the Elias Boudinot Bicentennial Prize Preceptorship, Humboldt Faculty and Howard Fellowships, taught as Guest Professor in the Stanford German Dept., and was an invited Senior Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Studies of the Albert-Ludwigs Universität, Freiburg. She has served on the Executive Committees of the MLA Divisions in “Comparative Studies in the Nineteenth-Century and Romanticism,” “Philosophical Approaches to Literature,” “Comparative Studies in Eighteenth-Century Literature,” “Interdisciplinary Approaches to Society and Culture,” and “Literature and the Other Arts” and been a frequent participant and organizer at ASECS, ICLA, and Goethe Society conferences.

Prof. Brodsky has advised over forty PhD students to date, including students in the departments of Comparative Literature, German, Spanish and Portuguese, and the School of Architecture. For a list of completed dissertations she has advised, please see her curriculum vitae.
 

Lila Davachi, Ph.D., is a pioneering cognitive neuroscientist and Professor of Psychology at Yale University. Her work explores how the brain transforms everyday experience into lasting memory. She earned her Ph.D. in neuroscience from Yale, training under renowned neuroscientist Patricia Goldman-Rakic.

Before returning to Yale, Davachi was a Professor of Psychology at Columbia University and a Research Scientist at the Nathan Kline Institute. Her research combines behavioral experiments, functional neuroimaging, and intracranial electrophysiology to understand how experiences are encoded, consolidated, and retrieved.

Her work has reshaped the study of episodic memory, revealing how the hippocampus, medial temporal lobe, and cortical networks organize everyday life. In particular, Davachi’s research on event segmentation shows how the brain divides continuous experience into meaningful units, creating boundaries that influence what we remember. She has also advanced understanding of spontaneous memory replay and its role in memory consolidation.

Bridging cognitive neuroscience with affective science and clinical research, Davachi examines how motivation, reward, and emotion shape memory. Her many honors include the Cognitive Neuroscience Society’s Young Investigator Award, election to the Society of Experimental Psychologists, the Memory Disorders Research Society, the Association for Psychological Sciences and Columbia’s Lenfest Distinguished Faculty Award.
 

When Barry Loewer was an undergraduate at Amherst College, he was bugging his physics professor about what probability means and his history professor about counterfactuals (“if Kennedy had not been assassinated then the Vietnam war…..”) and they sent him to the philosophy department. There they took such questions seriously but they didn’t provide answers. One of his teachers (Joe Epstein) told him that he would have to find answers for himself and that it would take a long time if ever. He is still thinking about them. On Epstein’s advice he went to grad school at Stanford intending to do logic and philosophy of physics with Patrick Suppes. He ended up writing a dissertation on modality and the semantics of names with Jaakko Hintikka. His first job was at the University of South Carolina where he met David Albert and got back to Philosophy of Physics co-authoring with David papers on philosophy of quantum mechanics and statistical mechanics. Currently David and he are co-PIs for a big project in Philosophy of Cosmology. He moved to Rutgers in 1989 and has been chair and grad director. He usually teaches courses and seminars in philosophy of science and philosophical logic.