UID:496 | 2026-09-19 | "Rockaway Film Festival" <hello@rockawayfilmfestival.org> | This weekend: Tedious Limbs + Bread & Puppet (NEW DATE!)

New Date! Bread & Puppet rescheduled to MONDAY, September 21 due to weather.

This weekend:

PictoBeach Presents: Tedious Limbs
Tonight! Saturday, September 19 at 8:00 pm
Arverne Cinema Inside

Join us for our annual collaboration with PictoBeach — a one-day festival celebrating comics & zines. This screening presents over two decades of work from animator and comix artist, Devin Flynn, whose work blends traditional cartooning practices with incendiary methods bubbling up from the underground.
 

Tickets

 

Bread & Puppet: The Upside Down World Circus
*new date*
Monday, September 21 at 5:30 pm
Arverne Cinema Outside

The one and only Bread & Puppet Circus is back to confront our upside-down situation! With stilt dancers, paper maché beasts of all sizes, and a riotous brass band, The Upside Down World Circus is an urgent spectacle of protest and celebration.

Following the performance, we will screen a selection of Bread & Puppet films drawn from their archive and from the collection of The Film-Makers' Cooperative, our co-presenter for this event.

Doors will open at 5:00 pm with live music and food by La Cevicheria. Performance at 5:30 pm. Screening at 7:30 pm. 

Due to predictions of rain, this event has been rescheduled to Monday, September 21.

Tickets

 

Coming up:

Live Score: The Adventures of Prince Achmed + Shadow Puppet Show
Saturday, September 26 at 8:00 pm
Arverne Cinema Outside

For our last outdoor screening of the season, we present one of animation's great classics on its centennial. Created by a 26-year-old woman in the 1920s, it’s the world's oldest animated feature film, predating Disney by a decade. Crafted from thousands of hand-cut paper figures animated frame by frame, The Adventures of Prince Achmed draws on tales from "One Thousand and One Nights," following the prince and his magical flying horse through a series of wondrous adventures. 

Screening with live, original accompaniment by Order of the Illusive. Puppet duo Broken Toys will open the film with a new shadow play drawing on the history of Dead Horse Bay.
 

Tickets

Arverne Cinema 72-02 Gouverneur Ave, Arverne, NY 11692
rockawayfilmfestival.org