UID:497 | 2026-09-19 | "e-flux Agenda" <art-agenda@mailer.e-flux.com> | FEATURE: Kamayani Sharma on Raqs Media Collective

On Raqs Media Collective

Kamayani Sharma

Raqs Media Collective, Itineraries X, 2025. Wallpaper, 36 × 58.5 inches. Courtesy of the artists.

September 19, 2026

www.e-flux.com

Feature

This is the latest in a series of profiles focusing on artists whose work takes on a new light in our tumultuous present. Below is a short excerpt: for the full article, please click the above link to go through to the website.

In the dark, low-ceilinged interior of a seventeenth-century kitchen glows a red clock. Part of Raqs Media Collective’s first solo exhibition in twelve years in their native India, “The Time is Never Ripe” at Ladakh Arts and Media Organisation, the video projection Blood Moon (2025) evokes the cycles of multiple timelines and the tropes of folklore: fertility synced with the moon, stories told at the hearth, the moon’s transit in the earth’s shadow. Bringing together works that span the past fifteen years, the show combines these characteristic themes with a response to Ladakh’s setting on India’s northern edge, bordering Pakistan and China. It is currently embroiled in a movement for statehood that would restore elected self-governance, suspended since India’s controversial 2019 abrogation of the autonomy of Jammu and Kashmir, the territory of which Ladakh was formerly a part. Its rugged land and deeply layered past, including a period as a Silk Route stop, make it an unusual and yet appropriate site for Raqs’s work.

The physics, politics, and poetics of time have been one of the central interests of the collective’s practice since it was formed in 1992 by Jeebesh Bagchi, Shuddhabrata Sengupta, and Monica Narula, who met as students at New Delhi’s A.J.K. Mass Communication Research Centre (MCRC). Inspired by the sight of a man dancing at the shrine of thirteenth-century Sufi mystic Nizamuddin Auliya, they named themselves for the dervish’s ecstatic whirl—the raqs or dance in Urdu, Farsi, and Arabic—citing “kinetic contemplation” as their animating philosophy. The Leh curation highlights how their practice engages the trans-Himalayan terrain and history, both ancient and contemporary.

The play between old and new manifests in Raqs’s choice of media. In the 1990s, India globalized and liberalized its economy, transforming mass communication in the country. Increasingly accessible “new media” technologies like video, computers, and the internet began to be deployed in cultural production, accompanied by the theoretical frameworks required to assess the changing public sphere. Through the decade, Raqs made documentaries for public television, including a series of interviews about the childhoods of famous Indian artists and writers. In 2000, with the exhibition of an HTML-based piece accessible on a CD-ROM, they turned to art, eventually embodying a broader shift toward a conceptually driven media practice in India’s contemporary art sphere. The use of emergent technology is a mainstay of their work: 3D printing—a process becoming mainstream in India in the mid-2010s—was used to create molds to “bake” Communard Biscuits (2017), which is on view here. The work simulates the hard black biscuits fed by prison authorities to the 1871 Paris Commune’s insurrectionaries. In Raqs’s hands, this makes a droll comment on the punitive state projecting onto dissidents its own inability to digest revolutionary time.

The metaphor of the dancer’s spin manifests across their activations, not least in the New Delhi-based Sarai media program, which the artists co-founded in 2000. For its first fifteen years, a dialogue with a dense, dynamic network of thinkers and actors cultivated artistic practices through some of the city’s subaltern communities. This collaborative tendency plays out even at modest scales: for example, An Infra-vocabulary for Capital (2023), an erect vinyl-on-wood plinth inscribed with one thousand English words evoked by “capital,” was accompanied by printed translations in Ladakh’s Bodhi and Urdu languages. Transplanted into new, specific contexts, the original work was regenerated through fresh lexical possibilities...

Kamayani Sharma is a writer, podcaster, and translator based in Dehradun.

Contact

Facebook
X
Instagram

e-flux App

172 Classon Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11205
USA

This announcement was sent to wf.eventScout@gmail.com. You have received it because you have successfully subscribed to e-flux Agenda. You can revoke your consent and