UID:512 | 2026-09-21 | "Guggenheim New York" <guggenheim@emails.guggenheim.org> | September 21–October 5: Taryn Simon’s new exhibition, Works & Process events, architecture tours, and more!

Explore upcoming programs at the Guggenheim New York

What’s On
September 21–October 5
  View the calendar →
 

 

Plan your visit to the museum to experience Taryn Simon | Father Country I Do Love You, now on view.

Filling the entire rotunda, the presentation brings together never-before-seen photographs, text, videos, and sculptures into a singular interactive installation. The exhibition is the largest debut of new work ever staged at the Guggenheim.

Additionally, explore shows on view in the Tower Gallery including Guggenheim Pop: 1960 to Now, Collection in Focus | Modern European Currents, and the Thannhauser Collection, plus a range of special events and experiences.
 

Plan your visit  →

Please note: the museum will close at 3 pm and the store will close at 4 pm on Tuesday, September 22.
 
 

Special Events and Experiences
 

 

Maker-Led Pop-Ups: Fuxico by Davi Leventhal
   September 21 & September 23, 1–5 pm

As part of a public project that Guggenheim Poet-in-Residence Patrick Rosal designed for the museum's café, artists, poets, and educators lead facilitated drop-in workshops that invite visitors to pause and create together.

Join artist, educator, and community organizer Davi Leventhal for a fuxico-making workshop, part of his ongoing work The Fuxico Project. Free with museum admission.

Learn more →

 

Alex Da Corte’s ROY G BIV (2022)
   Thursday, September 24, 11:30 am–5:30 pm

Alex Da Corte’s ROY G BIV is a video installation in which the artist transforms into the characters of Marcel Duchamp, Rrose Sélavy, the Joker from Tim Burton’s 1989 film Batman, and one part of Brancusi’s 1916 sculpture The Kiss.

Once a month, professional housepainter Americo Da Corte will paint the cube in the colors red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet as part of a live performance. Free with museum admission.

Learn more →

 

Architecture Tours
   Saturdays & Sundays, 11:30 am–12:30 pm

Join us for an hour-long tour of the Guggenheim New York’s stunning architecture.

These building walkthroughs guide visitors through the rich history and structural elements of Frank Lloyd Wright’s landmark building, while offering insights into its innovative materials and design.

More info and tickets →

 

Member Monday Celebration
   Monday, September 28, 7 pm

Explore the rotunda exhibition Taryn Simon | Father Country I Do Love You when the museum stays open after hours just for members. Keep the celebration going with a glass of wine and a spirited Rotunda Dance Party, presented in partnership with Works & Process.

SCUFF will lead a queer country dance party, featuring partner dancing and classic-era line dances.

Become a member →

 

Works & Process at Guggenheim New York
 

 

KEIGWIN + COMPANY: Stage Door – ArtYard
   Sunday, September 27, 7–8:15 pm

Experience KEIGWIN + COMPANY’s community-enhanced show that blends professional performers with community members.

Artistic director Larry Keigwin and co-choreographer Nicole Wolcott explore the universal themes of acceptance, aging, and finding your place in the world through the lens of the audition.

Buy tickets →

 

For Kids and Family
 

 

Stroller Hour
   Saturday, September 26, 9:30–10:30 am

One Saturday each month, families with children ages 5 and under are invited to enjoy the museum for an hour before it opens to the public.

Experience the rotunda exhibition in a welcoming environment and explore works on view. Free for members.

More info and tickets →

 

Art Cart
   Every Saturday, times vary

Families and visitors of all ages are invited to explore current exhibitions through communal artmaking in the galleries. Each month introduces a new activity and motivating question, guiding participants through a creative exploration of materials and ideas.

More info and tickets →
 
 

Looking Ahead
 

Family Book Talk with Katy Hessel
   Saturday, October 10, 2–3 pm

Join author Katy Hessel for a special family book talk celebrating the release of The Story of Art Without Men: An Illustrated Guide to Amazing Women Artists.

More info and tickets →

 

The Guggenheim gratefully acknowledges its Global Partners. 

Learn more about our exhibitions and sponsors: Guggenheim Pop: 1960 to Now, Collection in Focus | Modern European Currents, and  Taryn Simon | Father Country I Do Love You.

To learn more about our education funders, visit guggenheim.org/education.

Gifts from friends like you make an impact on every aspect of the museum. Donate now →

Photo: David Heald; Jennifer Liseo; Filip Wolak
 

View in browser
Update profile
Privacy policy Guggenheim New York
1071 Fifth Ave at 89th St
New York, NY, 10128 United States
212 423 3500
guggenheim.org