UID:513 | 2026-09-21 | "Screen Slate Recommends" <jon@screenslate.com> | The Scout

Sofia works as a location scout for a TV pilot filming in NYC. It’s her job to find the homes, businesses & exteriors where the show will be filmed.

THE SCOUT

BUY TICKETS

Sofia works as a location scout for a TV pilot filming in New York City. It’s her job to find the homes, businesses, and exteriors where the show will be filmed. Driving around the city's different neighborhoods, she enters the private spaces of strangers to photograph their cozy apartments and eclectic shops, stepping into the fabric of their lives while trying to satisfy the demands of her erratic employers. Over a day filled with these encounters, Sofia witnesses moments of curiosity, vulnerability, and quiet tension until her work takes a sudden, personal turn. Drawing from her own experience as a location scout, writer-director Paula González-Nasser captures the poetry and costs of being a young creative. Her celebrated directorial debut The Scout crafts a contemplative exploration of urban disconnection, following one woman's journey through other people's worlds as she struggles to find her own.

Watch the trailer here.

The Scout opens at Film Forum with filmmaker and cast Q&As this weekend. Moderators include filmmakers Eliza Hittman (Never Rarely Sometimes Always) and Bing Liu (Minding the Gap) and actor Amy Zimmer (Blue Heron).

★★★★★ “A masterpiece . . . an immediate all-time great film on filmmaking” - Brandon Streussing, In Review Online

★★★★ “Paula González-Nasser’s fantastic debut is a major discovery” - Chase Hutchinson, The Playlist

"An accomplished debut that brings a New York location scout’s routines to lovely, low-key life” - Lovia Gyarkye, The Hollywood Reporter

Sponsored by Greenwich Entertainment

Screen Slate's daily newsletter sends out occasional email notices in partnership with its sponsors, which enables us to pay writers and maintain our listings platform. For information on sponsoring Screen Slate contact jon@screenslate.com.

We do not share your information with our promotional partners.