UID:515 | 2026-09-21 | "e-flux Events" <events@mailer.e-flux.com> | This week at e-flux: Art and Theory Today, Nyksan, and Planetary Afterimages

Join us this Tuesday at e-flux for a night of readings and presentations to celebrate the ninth issu… This week at e-flux: Art and Theory Today, Nyksan, and Planetary Afterimages

Join us this Tuesday at e-flux for a night of readings and presentations to celebrate the ninth issue of e-flux Index featuring Re'al Christian, Ben Davis, Keller Easterling, Liam Gillick, Hindley Wang and editor George MacBeth; and on Wednesday at Bar Laika for Playback 0038, an informal listening event with Nyksan; and on Thursday at e-flux for a two-part event featuring a workshop session with Yusuf Hassan, and a screening of John Akomfrah's Testament (1988), followed by a discussion with Hassan, Keli Safia Maksud, and Serubiri Moses.

This week at e-flux

e-flux Index #9, June 2026. Photo: Álvaro Martino.

Art and Theory Today: Readings from the Index
Tuesday, September 22, 2026, 7pm

Free admission

Join us at e-flux for a night of readings and presentations to celebrate the ninth issue of e-flux’s quarterly print publication, e-flux Index. We are delighted to welcome Re'al Christian, Ben Davis, Keller Easterling, Liam Gillick, and Hindley Wang. They will each expand upon their contributions to issue 9 of the Index, covering quandaries from the capacity of technology to record various histories of collapse, the jeopardized role of art writing, the possibility of a disposition of architecture theory, the relationship between theory and class struggle, and the psychoanalytic preoccupation with childhood and its traumas. This event will be hosted by e-flux Index editor George MacBeth. Read more here. 

Photo credit: Manu Uribe

Bar Laika presents Playback 0038 with Nyksan
Wednesday, September 23, 2026, 7pm

Join us at Bar Laika for the thirty-eighth edition of Playback with Nyksan. Nyksan is a Bogotá-born, London-based sound artist, DJ, and producer, as well as co-founder of TraTraTrax, a key Latinx label pursuing the quest of introducing and amplifying the mighty fire erupting from the clubs of Sur América and the Global South. Read more here. 

John Akomfrah, Testament (still), 1988.

Planetary Afterimages: After The Short Century
Workshop and Screening
Thursday, September 24, 2026, 5pm

Admission:
General $12
Student $10

An afterimage lingers—an imprint of vision that persists after the source has faded. It can be a physiological residue, or a heightened, hallucinatory palinopsia: a repetition that refuses closure. This convening takes the afterimage as its conceptual node: how do the images, films, and archival traces of The Short Century continue to circulate, resonate, and insist upon being re-seen? What specters, echoes, and reflections emerge when these works reappear across new temporalities and contexts?Join us at e-flux for Planetary Afterimages: After The Short Century, a two-part event beginning at 5pm with a session reflecting on the zine produced for this convening. At 7pm, contextual remarks will introduce a screening of John Akomfrah’s Testament (1988), which will be followed by a conversation between Yusuf Hassan, Keli Safia Maksud, and Serubiri Moses. Read more here. 

Stay tuned to upcoming programs at e-flux on our website, or subscribe to our events mailing list here. For more information, contact program@e-flux.com.

Contact

Facebook
X
Instagram

e-flux App

172 Classon Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11205
USA

This announcement was sent to wf.eventscout@gmail.com. You have received it because you have successfully subscribed to e-flux Events. You can revoke your consent and