UID:517 | 2026-09-21 | "Printed Matter, Inc." <news@printedmatter.org> | 2026 NY Art Book Fair opens  on Thursday!

Tickets are selling fast, reserve yours today!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

★ NYABF 2026 OPENS THURSDAY ★

Photo: Peter Zwolinski/BFA.com

Join us for the 2026 NY Art Book Fair, taking place at MoMA PS1 this week, from September 24–27. Across four days, NYABF convenes a wide range of independent and institutional publishers; antiquarian booksellers presenting rare and historic works; contemporary galleries and nonprofit art spaces; and a thriving community of zine publishers whose experimental spirit continues to redefine the medium. In this spirit, NYABF 2026 welcomes over 300 exhibitors from 41 countries across 6 continents, our most geographically diverse group of exhibitors to date.

The Fair hosts a robust schedule of programs including book launches, lectures, exhibitions, music performances, and workshops. NYABF 2026 carries particular resonance as it coincides with the 50th anniversaries of both Printed Matter and MoMA PS1. As we look ahead to the next 50 years, Printed Matter draws inspiration from the hundreds of new international art book fairs and publishing initiatives that have emerged in the past twenty years.

We look forward to celebrating this anniversary with our community—visitors, artists, publishers, and artists’ book lovers alike!

NYABF INFO

NYABF TICKETS

2026 NY ART BOOK FAIR STAFF

Maia Asshaq — Director of Fairs & Editions
Sanjana Iyer — Fairs & Editions Coordinator
sgp — Fairs & Editions Associate  
Claire Dauge-Roth — Head of Exhibitor Services
Camila Pernisco – Head of Visitor Services
Mallie Sanford — Head of Installation
Emmy Catedral – Organizer of The Classroom
Elijah Jackson – The Classroom Assistant
Lydo Le – Stage Curator
Kathleen Sleboda and Christopher Sleboda – Head of Design & Print Production
Chloe Luterman – Fairs Intern

Support
Printed Matter thanks its current funders: The A G Foundation, The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, Cowles Charitable Trust, The David Rockefeller Fund*, The Fox Aarons Foundation, Frances and Benjamin Benenson Foundation, the Helen Frankenthaler Foundation*, The Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation, The Milton and Sally Avery Arts Foundation, Pat Steir Foundation, Wagner Foundation, Walter and Karla Goldschmidt Foundation, The Windfall Fund, the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs, and the New York State Council on the Arts. We are also grateful to the Printed Matter Board of Directors, our NYABF Committee, our Members, and individuals worldwide for their support. For a complete list of our supporters, or to make a tax-deductible contribution, please visit printedmatter.org/support.

*Courtesy of The Collaborative Arts Network New York (CANNY) 

Special Thanks

Printed Matter would like to extend deep gratitude to the entire dedicated staff of MoMA PS1. We are especially grateful to Jeffrey Akwei, Philip Brand, Connie Butler, Gillian Burz, Andrew Cone, Lauren DiLoreto, Molly Kurzius, Jack Radley, Nick Scavo, Daniel Schaeffer, Zachary Taube, Aimes Vasquez, Richard Wilson, and DeVonn Francis and the team at Symone for their attention and support during this production. Special thanks to Emmy Catedral, Elijah Jackson, and Lydo Le. Printed Matter is deeply thankful to Nike and the members of our NYABF Committee for their support of the Volume Grant and to Are.na for their contribution to the Shannon Michael Cane Award. Thank you to the Shannon Michael Cane Award committee and to the Volume Grant committee; Neta Bomani, Sarah Elawad, and Leila Louhaichy. Special thanks to artist Sara Yukiko, for her generous contributions to Printed Matter's ticket edition. Thank you to our Fair partners and in-kind sponsors. A very special thanks to Printed Matter's Board of Directors for their participation and support.   

The NYABF Team extends special thanks to the entire staff of Printed Matter for their valuable support in this production.  

Printed Matter, Inc.

Printed Matter, Inc. is an independent 501(c)3 non-profit organization founded in 1976 by artists and art workers with the mission to foster the distribution, understanding, and appreciation of artists’ books and related artists’ publications.

The 2026 NY Art Book Fair is generously supported by:

 

🎈 A refreshed Membership Program for our 50th year 🎈

As Printed Matter celebrates its 50th Anniversary and 20th NY Art Book Fair, we’ve given our Membership Program a little makeover—with more benefits and ways to stay involved. You’ve been browsing the stacks. You’ve been coming to the Fairs. You’ve probably left with more books than you intended to. The natural next step is to become a Member.

Check out our member perks, like free Fair entry to NYABF and click here to sign up!

 

Browse our catalog   ●   Become a member   ●   Make a donation

Printed Matter, Inc.
Printed Matter, Inc. is an independent 501(c)3 non-profit organization founded in 1976 by artists and art workers with the mission to foster the appreciation, dissemination, and understanding of artists’ books and other artists’ publications.

Printed Matter, Inc.

231 11th Avenue

New York, NY 10001

www.printedmatter.org

www.pmabf.org

T: 212 925 0325

Printed Matter’s bookstore is wheelchair accessible.