UID:520 | 2026-09-22 | "e-flux Agenda" <art-agenda@mailer.e-flux.com> | Bill Burns’ special edition monogrammed work gloves launch at NYABF 2026

Printed Matter, Inc. is pleased to announce the launch of Bill Burns’ special edition monogram…

  

Bill Burns: special edition monogrammed work gloves launch

Printed Matter, Inc.

Bill Burns, monogrammed work gloves. Courtesy of the artist and Printed Matter Edition.

September 24–27, 2026

NY Art Book Fair
MoMA PS1
22-25 Jackson Ave
Queens, NY 11101
United States

www.billburnsprojects.com

Printed Matter, Inc. is pleased to announce the launch of Bill Burns’ special edition monogrammed work gloves, created by the artist on the occasion of Printed Matter, Inc.’s 50th Anniversary as well as the 20th Anniversary of the New York Art Book Fair. The names embroidered on the gloves feature luminaries of the Printed Matter Universe, as selected by Mr. Burns, including Max Schumann, AA Bronson, Phil Aarons, Shannon Michael Cane, Lucy Lippard and Annie Sprinkle. Others such as Roselee Goldberg, Raven Chacon and Helen Molesworth are curators, writers, artists, and others whose work the artist first encountered while browsing through books at Printed Matter, Inc.

Bill Burns’ special edition monogrammed work gloves are made from 100 percent unbleached cotton with dark navy embroidery. Each pair is in an edition of three (with one artist proof). They are priced at 75 USD per pair—all proceeds go to Printed Matter. The Special Edition Monogrammed Work Gloves feature the following names from the Printed Matter Universe:

AA Bronson, A.L. Steiner, Annie Sprinkle, Barbara Kruger, Barbara Bloom, Brian Wallis, Clive Phillpot, David Platzker, David Senior, Edit DeAk, Helen Molesworth, Jason Polan, Jenny Holzer, Johann König, Keith Gray, Lawrence Weiner, Lesley A Martin, Lucy Lippard, Max Schumann, Misaki Kawai, Phillip Aarons, Raven Chacon, Richard Prince, Roselee Goldberg, Shannon Cane, Sol LeWitt.

Bill Burns
Bill Burns was born into a bookselling family in Saskatchewan where he learned about art and books and tractors from monks and poets and farmers. He lives in Toronto. In addition to his embroidered work gloves he is known for his drawings, performance, sound and film work. His projects extend to journeys with donkeys and goats as well as happenings and writings about labour and exchange value. Over the past 30 years he has produced dozens of editions and books with publishers including Verlag der Buchhandlung Walther König, Cologne, the KW, Berlin, and the ICA, London. His most recent book, It's the Sun and the Rain that Makes the Salt and Goats and Honey Bees, is published by the Oil Tank Culture Project, Seoul in collaboration with Yeni Ma.  Bill is represented by MKG127, Toronto. Instagram.

New York Art Book Fair (NYABF)
Across four days, NYABF convenes a wide range of independent and institutional publishers; antiquarian booksellers presenting rare and historic works; contemporary galleries and nonprofit art spaces; and a thriving community of zine publishers whose experimental spirit continues to redefine the medium. The Fair also hosts a robust schedule of programs including book launches, lectures, exhibitions, music performances, and workshops.

Printed Matter, Inc.
Printed Matter, Inc. is an independent 501(c)3 non-profit organization founded in 1976 by artists and art workers with the mission to foster the appreciation, dissemination, and understanding of artists’ books and other artists’ publications.  Our shop is located at 231 11th Avenue New York, NY 10001.

NYABF hours: Thursday, September 24, 7–10pm (opening night) / Friday, September 25, 12–7pm / Saturday, September 26, 10am–7pm / Sunday, September 27, 12–6pm.

For more information or press inquiries please call (212) 925 0325 or write nyartbookfair@printedmatter.org.

NYABF website / Printed Matter.

Contact

Facebook
X
Instagram

e-flux App

172 Classon Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11205
USA

This announcement was sent to wf.eventScout@gmail.com. You have received it because you have successfully subscribed to e-flux Agenda. You can revoke your consent and