UID:526 | 2026-09-22 | "BGC Design Circle" <events@bgc.bard.edu> | Material World: A Party for the Curious

Objects, Cocktails, and a Little Glamour
                                                                                                                                                                                      

 

 

 

MATERIAL WORLD
Come curious. Stay late.

An evening of art, objects, cocktails, and lots of dancing—where THINGS matter. Step into Material World, a new annual celebration bringing artists, designers, collectors, scholars, and the culturally curious together at BGC.

Thursday, November 5, 2026 | 7–11 pm
Bard Graduate Center
38 West 86th Street, New York City

With creative direction by internationally acclaimed artist Richard Tuttle, BGC’s academic building becomes an immersive world inspired by Goddesses in the Machine: Fashion in American Silent Film. Discover playful encounters with objects, step into a fantastical photo booth, and find yourself in unexpected company. Enjoy cocktails and light bites, explore the BGC Gallery after hours, and dance to music by DJ Holly T.

Your invitation from Richard Tuttle: wear your favorite accessory.
Dress: Silver-screen sparkle, shine, and goddess-inspired glamour encouraged.

Individual — $125
Patron — $250 · Includes special recognition
Material World Council — $500 · Includes two tickets and recognition on the event webpage and materials

Material World Council
Emma Cormack · Michelle Finamore · Keli Goff · Laura Microulis · Zesty Meyers · Jennifer Olshin · Eliza Rubin · Emma Scully · Evan Snyderman · Richard Tuttle
*list in formation

Help shape a new BGC tradition. Join the Council and welcome a new generation of artists, designers, collectors, scholars, and friends into our community. Contact VIP.RSVP@bgc.bard.edu with the subject line “Material World Council 2026” or call 212.501.3072

Proceeds support BGC’s exhibitions, scholarship, research, and public programs through the BGC Design Circle.

Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
 Follow us on Instagram

Forward this email to a friend.