UID:527 | 2026-09-22 | "MoMA" <newsletters@moma.org> | Follow the evolution of feminist art

Artists and curators on how we inhabit space every day
Artists and curators on how we inhabit space every day

View with images

I’d love to invite you to spend some time with an exhibition that has been particularly meaningful to me as a curator, Taking Back Our Space: Photographic Perspectives.

The project began with a question: How might a landmark work of feminist art resonate today—not simply as history, but as a framework for thinking about the politics of bodies, space, identity, and power? “I sat so tight, so constricted even when I was alone. This led me to want to see how other women occupied their space in the world,” explained Marianne Wex, speaking about what inspired her prescient and ambitious 1977 series Let’s Take Back Our Space. Bringing this work into dialogue with seven contemporary artists—Nona Faustine, K8 Hardy, Martine Gutierrez, Yuki Kihara, Joiri Minaya, Paulina Olowska, and Wendy Red Star—opened up a rich, cross-generational conversation about how feminism has evolved over the past five decades.

Interviews with these artists anchor a suite of related features, including a visit with K8 Hardy at her studio and a favorite vintage clothing store in Brooklyn, and a feature by Caitlin Ryan, about Martine Gutierrez’s arresting self portraits that have recently joined MoMA’s collection. Together, they offer different ways into the exhibition and into questions that continue to resonate: Who gets to occupy public space? Whose histories are visible? And what does it mean to reclaim space—physical, cultural, historical, or institutional?

I hope you’ll take a look, and I’d be delighted for Taking Back Our Space to be part of your calendar this season.

—Roxana Marcoci, The David Dechman Senior Curator and former Acting Chief Curator of Photography

A Curator’s Guide to Taking Back Our Space

Take a closer look at how eight photographers reclaim the body as a site of resistance.

→ Read

Inside How K8 Hardy Fashions Herself

Watch how the artist contrives to “ruin” beautiful things.

→ Watch

An Interview with Marianne Wex

Read an excerpt from the Taking Back Our Space exhibition catalogue.

→ Read

Wendy Red Star Would Rather Be Outside

The artist talks about therapy, community gossip as oral history, and why her best ideas never happen at a desk.

→ Read

→  Plan your visit
→  Join
→  Buy tickets
→  Store

MoMA
11 West 53 Street
New York, NY 10019

MoMA PS1
22-25 Jackson Avenue
Long Island City, NY 11101

© 2026 The Museum of Modern Art

Images from top: Detail of a panel from Marianne Wex. Let’s Take Back Our Space: “Female” and “Male” Body Language as a Result of Patriarchal Structures. 1977. Gelatin silver prints, paper, and ink on board. The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Committee on Photography Fund, and The Modern Women’s Fund. © 2026 Marianne Wex; Paulina Olowska. Body Movement Alphabet Studies (detail). 2007. Cut-and-taped printed paper, printed plastic sheet, and paint on paper. The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of the artist; Still from “She spent 10 years filming every outfit. Here’s why.” © 2026 The Museum of Modern Art, New York; Detail of a panel from Marianne Wex. Let’s Take Back Our Space: “Female” and “Male” Body Language as a Result of Patriarchal Structures. 1977. Gelatin silver prints, paper, and ink on board. The Museum of Modern Art, New York. Committee on Photography Fund, and The Modern Women’s Fund. © 2026 Marianne Wex; Wendy Red Star. Apsáalooke Feminist #1 (detail). 2016. Photograph. © Wendy Red Star