UID:529 | 2026-09-22 | "Film at Lincoln Center" <noreply@filmlinc.org> | How to Make the Most Out of Your NYFF64 Experience 📽️

Read on for special offers, tips, and more to get the most out of your New York Film Festival experience!

----------------------------------------

Bookmark filmlinc.org/tix to always check available tickets, and check back often. See all standby screenings here. This link is the fastest way to see what's available. 

We will also announce these added tickets on Discord, in FLC Member newsletters, NYFF newsletters, on Reddit, X, and Instagram.

See all screenings that are standby-only here. On the day of the screening or event, a standby line will form at the venue’s box office prior to showtime. Tickets may become available to the standby line on a first-come, first-served basis, limit one per customer, with priority access to Express Pass holders.

A select number of partial view tickets may be available for each Alice Tully Hall screening, available only by request at the Alice Tully Hall box office.

To ask a general question or to buy or sell tickets in our community, use Reddit or Discord and please adhere to all rules.

Explore all NYFF festival venues here. All venues at Lincoln Center are on the same block, so feel free to pack your schedule with back-to-back screenings as long as you have at least 15–20 minutes to get to the next screening. 

We recommend arriving at least 15–20 minutes prior to your showtime. All films begin at the listed showtime.

Bag checks may be required, so please arrive earlier if needed. There is no dress code, but bonus points for dressing to impress. There are public step-and-repeats at the Walter Reade Theater and the Elinor Bunin Munroe Film Center for you to capture your festival experience!

Read the Full How-To Guide

WEAR THE FESTIVAL HOME

A new season of cinema calls for a new piece of NYFF. Our new merch line featuring this year's key art, as well as a new NYFF line, will be available for purchase beginning September 25 at Alice Tully Hall and the Elinor Bunin Munroe Film Center while supplies last. 

See What's Available

AS Colour: Founded in New Zealand in 2005, AS Colour makes premium wardrobe essentials built on quality, longevity, and the perfect fit, fabric, and finish. The brand believes longer-lasting products are better for the environment—pieces are made to be worn, washed, and loved for years, not seasons.

Choose any 4 items, get 20% off. Promo code: 4deal
Choose any 5+ items, get 25% off. Promo code: 5deal

ascolour.com

Thompson Central Park: Stay where New York's creative energy meets iconic Manhattan hospitality. Thompson Central Park offers an elevated Midtown experience with thoughtfully designed guestrooms, celebrated dining destinations, and an unbeatable location moments from Lincoln Center. This fall, make the hotel your retreat between screenings, meetings, and city adventures while enjoying exclusive offers created for New York Film Festival guests.

----------------------------------------

BENEFACTOR