UID:531 | 2026-09-22 | "Japan Society" <info@japansociety.org> | Mieko Kawakami + Selected Shorts Live at Japan Society 🎭

Exclusive evenings of storytelling and author signings are coming this fall!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

View with images

A Evening with Mieko Kawakami at Japan Society

Tuesday, November 10, 7 pm

Don’t miss an extraordinary evening with Mieko Kawakami, celebrated author of Breasts and Eggs and Heaven. Hear the global literary icon discuss her barrier-breaking works live on stage, and bring or purchase copies for a post-talk author signing session.

Member presale begins September 24 at 12 pm.

Learn More→

 

Selected Shorts: A Portrait of an Author on Fire

Monday, October 26, 7 pm

In honor of literary icon Mieko Kawakami’s arrival in NYC, Selected Shorts—the hit public radio series and podcast—is bringing a fierce lineup of fiction to Japan Society.

Get Tickets→

Watch spellbinding tales from East Asian authors come alive through dynamic performances by acclaimed actors:

 * Ophira Eisenberg (The Guardian, Ask Me Another)

 * Midori Francis (Grey’s Anatomy, The Sex Lives of College Girls)

 * Josh Radnor (How I Met Your Mother, Hunters)

Please note: Mieko Kawakami will not appear at this event. Actors subject to change.

 

JUST ANNOUNCED

Hirayasumi Advance Screening

Q&A with Composer and Producer

Wednesday, October 7, 7 pm

Watch a world-first preview of Episode 1 of the upcoming anime adaptation of Keigo Shinzo’s award-winning manga!

Get Tickets→

 

COMING UP SOON

Annual Sake Tasting Returns this Fall

Member presale begins October 8 at 12 pm

Indulge in a variety of sake at this yearly sold-out event featuring breweries from New York and Japan.

Save the Date→

 

Support for cultural programs is provided by Anime NYC, the Sandy Heck Lecture Fund, Jean Fan Colson and Daniel Colson, Seth A. Coren, and Faith L. Taylor.

Hirayasumi  is presented by Japan Society in collaboration with VIZ.

Film programs are generously supported by Anime NYC and ORIX Corporation USA. Endowment support is provided by the Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Endowment Fund and The John and Miyoko Davey Endowment Fund. Additional season support is provided by Jono Abrams and Elizabeth Linn, Ayumi Arafune, Darin Arita and Kanako Arita, Mike Audet, Shizuka Bernstein, Gabriel Bianconi, Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Catanzaro, The Globus Family, Satoshi Harris-Koizumi, Kazumi Hayama, George and Hillary Hirose, Timothy Hower, Eriko Ishikawa, Akiko Koide and Shohei Koide, Marc Mailhot, Kurt Nickels, David Toberisky, Joseph Rajaratnam and Dharshini Iolanthe Sivakumaran, the Japan Society Film Council, and other Film supporters.

Transportation assistance is provided by Japan Airlines, the official Japanese airline sponsor of Japan Society Film Program. Housing assistance is provided by the Prince Kitano New York, the official hotel sponsor of Japan Society Film Program.

Japan Society’s 4K Projector is made possible through the generosity of the following donors: Crunchyroll, Mike Audet, The Globus Family, Darin Arita, Carlo Bolivar, Gregory Corsico IHO RJ Hogan, Vincent Covello and Carol Mandel, Laurel Gonsalves, George and Hillary Hirose, Ida Law, Anne-Marie Peeters, and Joseph Rajaratnam and Dharshini Iolanthe Sivakumaran, Kimberly A. Woodward, and the New York State Council on the Arts with the support of the Office of the Governor and the New York State Legislature.

Japan Society’s arts and culture programs are made possible by the New York State Council on the Arts, with the support of the Office of the Governor and the New York State Legislature; in part by public funds from the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs in partnership with the City Council; and by the Hotsuki Family Foundation.

Additional support is provided by Sharp Imaging & Information Company of America and a grant from The Venable Foundation.

Japan Society's 120th anniversary initiatives and related programs are generously supported by Champion Sponsor, MUFG Bank, Ltd.; Advocate Sponsors, Mizuho Americas and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation; and Friend Sponsors, Mitsubishi Corporation (Americas), Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., and Sumitomo Corporation of Americas.

Banner Image © Stephanie Candelario

Hirayasumi Image Credit © Keigo Shinzo/Shogakukan/Hirayasumi Project

Mieko Kawakami © Reiko Toyama

Japan Society
333 East 47th Street

New York, NY 10017

Join | Support | Calendar | Location & Hours | Privacy Policy