UID:534 | 2026-09-23 | "Montez Press" <info@montezpress.com> | Montez Press September News

→ Interjection-012-08 → Interjection-012-09 → Book launch for Edward Thomasson’s The Whole Routine → Pre-order Apocrypha → MPR schedule

Montez Press News
September 2026

→ Interjection-012-08 
→ Interjection-012-09
→ Book launch for Edward Thomasson’s The Whole Routine
→ Pre-order Kasra Jalilipour’s Apocrypha 
→ Keep an eye on this month’s MPR schedule

August Interjection: Mute Points: Wandering Reflections on Afro-Asian Solidarity  - Kandis Williams

Kandis Williams (b. 1985, Baltimore, Maryland) received her BFA from Cooper Union in 2009. She has presented solo exhibitions at 52 Walker, a David Zwirner exhibition space, New York, NY; Night Gallery, Los Angeles, CA; the Institute for Contemporary Art at Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA; Works on Paper, Vienna; St. Charles Projects, Baltimore, MD; and SADE, Los Angeles. She has participated in group exhibitions at several institutions, including the Hammer Museum and Huntington Libraries, Los Angeles; Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore; Wignall Museum of Contemporary Art, Rancho Cucamonga, CA; Frye Art Museum, Seattle, WA; Studio Museum in Harlem, New York; and the Underground Museum, Los Angeles. Her work has recently been featured in the New York Times, Hyperallergic, Artforum, GQ Style, Frieze, W Magazine, LA Weekly, and Cultured, among others. As of 2021, her work belongs in the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art, New York; Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles; Hammer Museum, Los Angeles; Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore; Julia Stoschek Collection, Berlin; and the New Berlin Art Society, Berlin. She is the 2021 recipient of the prestigious Mohn Award, granted by the Hammer Museum in recognition of artistic excellence, and the Foundation for Contemporary Arts’ 2021 Grants to Artists Award.

Guest edited by Christopher Whitfield.

→ Read Kandis’ work here

September Interjection: How Can You Be So Loved - Elden Zachery 

A larger-than-life, queer performance artist of Kristang heritage and trained in Butoh, Elden Zachery (b. 2002) operates from the belief of the body as a fleshy marker of space and time, taking interest in human behaviour and cultures and social phenomenon – their performance practice being a reaction to the electricity of life. Queerness, interculturality and ecology come together as their morningstar in the creation of performance work and workshops, aiming to comment on and propose body-responsive care for the cracks and dark corners of our lived reality. Elden’s work spans theatre work, site-responsive/specific performances, film, modelling, movement direction, costume design, while facing the world of art-making with an open heart and a commitment to adding valuable perspective to the world from their corner of the universe.

Guest edited by Christopher Whitfield.

→ Read Elden’s work here 

Book launch for The Whole Routine by Edward Thomasson 

London, join us to celebrate the book launch for The Whole Routine by Edward Thomasson, featuring an in conversation event with Edward Thomasson and Fiontán Moran at the ICA, The Mall, London, SW1Y 5AH on Wednesday 30th September, doors at 6pm for a prompt 6:30pm start. 

A musical performance about control and desire, The Whole Routine explores the slippages between public and private selves, where discipline comes under pressure and strangers collide with unexpressed longing. Developed over three years through workshops and public presentations, the work uses song, dance and repetition to explore how patterns of behaviour shape our attempts to navigate difficult social feelings.

The accompanying publication brings Thomasson’s performance text into print through Scores, an imprint co-commissioned by Montez Press and London Performance Studios, publishing scripts and performance texts by artists and makers working across the visual and theatrical arts.

The launch offers an opportunity to encounter The Whole Routine in its published form, and to consider the processes, structures and questions that shaped the work.

→ Book tickets here 
→ Preorder The Whole Routine

Montez Press Radio September Schedule 

MPR will be broadcasting live events throughout the month from The Green-Wood Cemetery in New York, in London from the Centre for Research Architecture and La Americana in Mexico City. Keep an eye on our schedule where more details will be added soon.

→ Listen at radio.montezpress.com
→ Keep an eye on this month’s schedule
→ Unlock the archive
→ Donate

With love,
MPR & Montez Press

www.montezpress.com   info@montezpress.com