UID:538 | 2026-09-23 | "Anthology Film Archives" <info@anthologyfilmarchives.org> | This Week at AFA: SCREAMPLAY; Toney W. Merritt; Bo Harwood LP + THE KILLING OF A CHINESE BOOKIE; Rubble on Screen; Valentin Noujaïm & Narrow Rooms

The seldom-screened horror romp SCREAMPLAY opens at Anthology this Friday. Director and star Rufus Butler Seder’s film, which co-stars the legendary George Kuchar, follows an aspiring screenwriter whose latest horror script begins to bleed into reality. Shot almost entirely within a 3,200-square-foot loft in Boston using a remarkably inventive bevy of practical effects and handmade sets, SCREAMPLAY premiered at the 1985 New York Independent Film Festival (and was distributed by Troma) but has been largely unseen since. We’re proud to present Muscle Distribution’s glorious new restoration, sourced from Seder’s personal 16mm print. Seder himself will be here in person for post-screening Q&As on Friday and Saturday nights, along with special guests!

Also opening this Friday is the first-ever extensive East Coast retrospective of the prolific Bay Area filmmaker Toney W. Merritt, whose career spans from the 1960s through the present day. Merritt’s work is marked by a distinctive proliferation of imagery suggesting fluid and often contradictory identities; exploring through associative images and text questions of race, politics, and the artist’s role in society. Organized in collaboration with filmmaker Lynne Sachs and Canyon Cinema, this series welcomes Merritt in person for post-screening Q&As following each screening!

On Sunday, we’ll present a special 35mm screening of John Cassavetes’s THE KILLING OF A CHINESE BOOKIE to celebrate the release of a new LP devoted to composer Bo Harwood, whose music appears throughout Cassavetes’s films. The record will be available for purchase at the screening, with a discounted price for ticket holders.

The second program of “Valentin Noujaïm – In Relation” takes place tonight, bringing Noujaïm’s BEFORE SHE FORGETS HELIOPOLIS together with films by Barbara Hammer, Darryl Daley, Razan AlSalah and more. “Rubble on Screen” continues today and tomorrow, with screenings of NO OTHER LAND, STILL LIFE, and IN VANDA’S ROOM. And "Narrow Rooms" returns tomorrow with a screening of Hugh Harrison’s shot-on-video adaptation of the Robert Chesley play JERKER.

THEATRICAL PREMIERE RUN – NEW RESTORATION!
SCREAMPLAY
September 25 – October 1
Edgar Allan (Rufus B. Seder) is an aspiring screenwriter who has just come to Hollywood to make it in the movies…only to wind up working as the janitor at a fleabag apartment complex run by the greasy ex-boxer Martin (played by underground film legend George Kuchar). When Edgar begins channeling his frustrations with his kooky neighbors into fodder for his latest screenplay, the vivid murder scenes he writes begin to happen for real. As the bodies begin to pile up and the line between reality and fiction become increasingly blurred, Edgar, who is convinced that the only way to be a real writer is to suffer, is slowly driven mad.

SCREAMPLAY is a marvel of campy charm, gothic horror tropes, and astonishingly inventive set design and special effects. Wearing its low-budget resourcefulness on its sleeve, but also genuinely atmospheric and transporting, the spell it casts is all the more remarkable given that it was filmed almost entirely within the confines of the 3,200-square-foot South End Boston loft where director Rufus Butler Seder and his Boston Black and White Movie Company (comprised of fellow students from the city’s School of the Museum of Fine Arts) had previously made a bevy of similarly inspired 16mm short films. Conjured from some of the earliest and still-most-effective cinematic techniques – matte paintings, scale models, ingeniously adaptable sets, animation, highly expressionistic lighting, and the good old-fashioned magic provided by charismatic performers (above all, Seder himself in the central role, and of course the irreplaceable George Kuchar, who broke his ankle during filming of the final fight scene) – SCREAMPLAY is a deliriously entertaining demonstration of the power of low budget invention, and a singularly charming (Boston) salute to Old Hollywood.

Premiered (alongside BLOOD SIMPLE) at the 1985 New York Independent Film Festival, initially distributed by Troma (click here for details about our upcoming Troma series), but rarely screened in recent decades, SCREAMPLAY has been newly restored in 4K – scanned from Seder’s personal 16mm print – and is now back in circulation, where it’s poised to charm, delight, and frighten a whole new audience.

Rufus Butler Seder
SCREAMPLAY
1984, 91 min, 16mm-to-DCP. New 4K restoration by Muscle Distribution in association with Matchbox Cine.

Preceded by:
Rufus Butler Seder
IN THE CITY: A TRILOGY (LIVE IN FEAR; SUN RUN; PHANTOM SUBWAYS)
1977, 6 min, 16mm-to-DCP
Fri-Thurs, Sept 25-Oct 1 at 6:45 & 9:00 nightly. Additional screenings on Sat & Sun at 4:30. Writer, director, and star Rufus Butler Seder and producer/cinematographer Dennis M. Piana will be here in person on Fri & Sat for Q&As following the evening screenings; they’ll be joined on Fri evening by star Katy Bolger! The Q&As will be moderated by Caroline Golum (Fri at 6:45), Dylan Mars Greenberg (Fri at 9:00), Elsie Fisher (Sat at 6:45) and Elizabeth Purchell (Sat at 9:00).

CONQUEST PIECE

TONEY W. MERRITT
September 25 – 27
Anthology is overjoyed to bring filmmaker Toney W. Merritt from the Bay Area to New York City for the first-ever extensive East Coast retrospective devoted to his 16mm films and digital video work. Merritt began his career in the late 1960s, and created films prolifically throughout the 1970s-80s. While there were occasional screenings of individual films in later years, it’s only more recently – following a devastating 2020 wildfire that destroyed his studio and archive, and the subsequent invaluable preservation of ten of his earlier films by Canyon Cinema and the National Film Preservation Foundation – that his work has begun to attract the latter-day attention that it deserves.

Merritt’s films boast a highly distinctive set of concerns and stylistic/formal approaches, even within the realm of experimental cinema. Thematically and symbolically, they’re marked by a proliferation of imagery suggesting multiple, fluid, and often contradictory identities, perceived, imposed, or adopted (reflective of the experience of a Black artist negotiating a society permeated by prejudice). Structurally they’re distinguished by a striking proclivity towards loosely associated sketches and fragmentary imagery, while formally they feature innovative, evocative, and often puzzling uses of onscreen text (in a way that calls to mind the films of Robert Nelson, Joyce Wieland, Owen Land, and others). And through all of this, they explore questions of race, political engagement, and the artist’s role in society in ways that are subtle, slippery, and surprising.

“Merritt’s unique corpus of personal films and videos draws upon and subverts numerous experimental, narrative, and documentary strategies and techniques, and is distinguished by an unusual combination of playfulness, opacity, and formal concision. As a graduate student at the San Francisco Art Institute (SFAI) in the late 1970s, Merritt was part of a thriving subculture of personal cinema and radical individualism. Like many of his teachers and peers of the time, such as James Broughton, Mike Henderson, Lynn Marie Kirby, George Kuchar, Robert Nelson, Dean Snider, Babeth M. VanLoo, Marian Wallace, and Al Wong, Merritt made art firmly rooted in a San Franciscan bohemian tradition and style. Iconoclastic, performative, and disarmingly funny, his work belongs to a broader repudiation of the aesthetic seriousness that dominated experimental cinema culture in the 1970s. Utilizing a reflexive comedic sensibility, films such as EF (1979), ASIAM (1982), and LONESOME COWBOY (1979) elaborate a recurring character (played by the artist); Merritt’s tongue-in-cheek, 30-second REVOLUTION – part of the longer CONQUEST PIECE (1982) – subverts the romanticized iconography of the Black political radical by way of an unexpected pirouette as a pun on ‘revolution.’ As Merritt explains, these films ‘place emphasis on the individual’s place in the world; Who a person is as opposed to What they are. These films contain a measure of angst, irony and humor. Without the latter, it would all be bullshit.’” –Brett Kashmere, Executive Director, Canyon Cinema

Organized in collaboration with Lynne Sachs and Canyon Cinema. Special thanks to Toney W. Merritt and Brett Kashmere (Canyon Cinema).

Toney W. Merritt will be here in person to present each screening, with Q&As moderated by the special guests detailed below.

PROGRAM 1: PSYCHODRAMAS: MASKED FIGURES / MULTIPLE IDENTITIES
WHAT’S THIS? 1973, 1.5 min, 16mm-to-digital, silent
A KISS OF DEATH 1974, 9 min, 16mm
6 TO 8AM 1975, 30 min, 16mm-to-digital
EMBRACABLE YOU 1979, 5 min, 16mm-to-digital
ASIAM 1982, 5 min, 16mm, silent
WELCOME TO THE HOUSE OF RAVEN 1997, 3 min, 16mm
Total running time: ca. 60 min.
Fri, Sept 25 at 6:30 and Sun, Sept 27 at 7:00. Merritt will be here in person for both screenings, with the Q&As moderated by filmmakers Peggy Ahwesh (Fri, Sept 25) and David Sherman (Sun, Sept 27).

PROGRAM 2: VIGNETTES/MINIATURES
FINE FRENCH PHRASES AND OTHER FABLES 1976, 4 min, 16mm-to-digital
FALL WORKS 1978, 3.5 min, 16mm-to-digital, silent
GREEN MOUNTAIN 1978, 1.5 min, 16mm-to-digital
EF 1979, 4 min, 16mm, silent
LONESOME COWBOY 1979, 30 sec, 16mm
NOTES 1979, 1 min, 16mm-to-digital, silent
THREE MASKED PIECES 1979, 1 min, 16mm-to-digital, silent
SMALL EVENTS 1979, 2 min, 16mm-to-digital
BY THE SEA 1982, 1.5 min, 16mm, silent
CONQUEST PIECE 1982, 6 min, 16mm
NOT A MUSIC VIDEO 1987, 7 min, 16mm
Total running time: ca. 40 min.
Fri, Sept 25 at 8:30 and Sat, Sept 26 at 6:00. Merritt will be here in person for both screenings, with the Q&As moderated by filmmaker Lynne Sachs (Fri, Sept 25) and writer and film programmer Yasmina Price (Sat, Sept 26).

PROGRAM 3: LATER WORK
VISION QUESTS 2009, 15 min, digital
AT EDEN’S HEART 2021, 3 min, digital
BLACK OAK FALLEN 2021, 9 min, digital
A FIRE’S POEM 2022, 4 min, digital
APART – A PART 2024, 6.5 min, digital
THE BIRDS AND THE BEASTS 2025, 4 min, digital
SOUL – WHAT LIES WITHIN 2026, 5 min, digital
FRAGMENT #9 – ON THE ASYMMETRY OF BROKEN BRANCHES 2026, 1.5 min, digital
Total running time: ca. 55 min.
Sat, Sept 26 at 4:00. Merritt will be here in person for a Q&A moderated by filmmaker Lynne Sachs.

YOULOGY / NO GHOSTS

VALENTIN NOUJAÏM – IN RELATION
September 22 & 23
Valentin Noujaïm’s moving image practice slips between the formal seams of genre and method, the cracks of disappeared histories and communities, the hazy bifurcations of dystopic nightmares and utopic reveries, the scales of monumental narratives and intimate encounters. Born in France to Lebanese and Egyptian parents, the artist and filmmaker defies and dissembles reigning systems of power to explore how they act on bodies and psyches. His image-making investigates how colonization, gentrification and hierarchies of class, race, gender, and sexuality shape historical and contemporary narratives. Noujaïm embroiders his audiovisual experiments as an intergenerational witnessing, preoccupied with what is left behind and what is carried forward in the face of collapse.

“Valentin Noujaïm – In Relation” is a two-evening program of short films. Each takes a work by Noujaïm as an invitation to gather a constellation of co-conspirators, fellow travelers and kindred spirits.

Program 1, “Veiled Struggles: Queerness, Colonialism, and Memory”, begins with Noujaïm’s OCEANIA (2024) to guide a sequence of films negotiating the secrecies and exposures of queer life, the precarity and interdependence of familial bonds, and how to survive loss. Richard Fung’s SEA IN THE BLOOD (2000) and Mohammed Soueid’s CINEMA FOUAD (1994) carry the triptych across France, Trinidad, and Lebanon, carving out a political cartography warped by colonization and war. Through their generosity, the three films allow for the co-existence of grief, eroticism, and the flux of unsettled identities.

BEFORE SHE FORGETS HELIOPOLIS (2018) roots Program 2, “Re-tellings: What Our Grandmothers Have Known”. Noujaïm turns to his own family as a way into a story of exile and displacement that is at once specific and shared. Six companion films widen the geographic lens to Palestine, Senegal, Jamaica, the U.S., U.K. and Canada. In Program 2, grandmothers teach and tell, they pass down cultural traditions and Indigenous knowledges, they mark the multidirectional passage of time. Razan AlSalah, Jean-Pierre Bekolo, Shenny De Los Ángeles & Amanda Morell (iiritu), Barbara Hammer, Darryl Daley, and Caroline Monnet each in their way honor the elders who are our living archives.

Guest-programmed by Yasmina Price, who wrote the introduction above.

PROGRAM 2:
RE-TELLING: OUR GRANDMOTHERS HAVE KNOWN

Valentin Noujaïm
BEFORE SHE FORGETS HELIOPOLIS / AVANT D’OUBLIER HELIOPOLIS
2018, 23 min, digital. In French with English subtitles.
“My family have begun to forget their Egyptian roots and, on asking my grandmother Malo to recount the first part of her life in Cairo, I am confronted by the memories of an exiled Arabic woman, lost in a troubled sea of memories, soon to be erased by the passage of time.” –Valentin Noujaïm

Darryl Daley
YOULOGY / NO GHOSTS
2025, 8 min, digital
“YOULOGY / NO GHOSTS explores cyclical motifs of arrival and departure through the artist’s grandmother’s migration to the United Kingdom and her posthumous return to Jamaica, creating a transcendental frame where memory and time merge. In this speculative space, the film navigates beyond the confines of mortality, reimagining a future where inherited stories resist linearity.” –THIRD HORIZON FILM FESTIVAL

Barbara Hammer
OPTIC NERVE
1985, 16 min, 16mm
“[A] powerful personal reflection on family and aging. Hammer employs filmed footage which, through optical printing and editing, is layered and manipulated to create a compelling meditation on her visit to her grandmother in a nursing home. The sense of sight becomes a constantly evolving process of reseeing images retrieved from the past and fused into the eternal present of the projected image. Hammer has lent a new voice to the long tradition of personal meditation in the avant-garde of the American independent cinema.” –John Hanhardt, WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Razan AlSalah
YOUR FATHER WAS BORN 100 YEARS OLD, AND SO WAS THE NAKBA
2017, 7 min, digital. In Arabic with English subtitles.
“She looks down at her virtual ghost marked with an X. ‘If I were walking, I would have found it, even if it’s not here anymore.’ Oum Amin, a Palestinian grandmother, returns to her hometown Haifa through Google Maps Streetview – today, the only way she can see Palestine. The film consists of images from Google Street View accompanied by an imaginary voiceover written by the artist, that of her grandmother who was never able to return to her hometown in Palestine. This invented memory, narrated in voiceover, is nevertheless set in a real colonial context. In this pixelated, stroboscopic landscape, archival images narrating British and Israeli colonization appear.” –Cinéma du Réel

Caroline Monnet
IKWÉ
2009, 5 min, digital. In Cree and French with English subtitles.
“IKWÉ is an experimental film that weaves the narrative of one woman’s (IKWÉ) intimate thoughts with the teachings of her grandmother, the Moon, creating a surreal narrative experience that communicates the power of thoughts and personal reflection. Made by Anishinaabe artist Caroline Monnet, the film reflects the intergenerational transmission of Indigenous knowledge.” –WINNIPEG FILM GROUP / NATIONAL BOARD OF CANADA

Jean-Pierre Bekolo
GRANDMA’S GRAMMAR / LA GRAMMAIRE DE MA GRAND’MERE
1996, 8 min, digital. In French with English subtitles.
“An inherited lesson from Djibril Diop Mambéty’s grandmother is transmitted through Jean-Pierre Bekolo’s chronicle of their conversation. Creating a Pan-African exchange, the Cameroonian Bekolo listens to the Senegalese Mambéty root his cinema in his grandmother’s storytelling – a narrative form of returns and repetitions, of continuation and reinvention.” –Yasmina Price

Shenny De Los Ángeles & Amanda Morell (iiritu)
FLORINDA’S DAUGHTER / HIJA DE FLORINDA
2024, 12 min, digital. In English and Spanish with English subtitles.
“Through a series of black-and-white tableaux, this poetry film follows the journey of Young Naomi in Everglades, Florida. She learns from Florinda, her grandmother, about the ancestral practices of caring for the land and nurturing grief in the face of environmental challenges. As the story unfolds, we grow to understand Florinda’s indigenous teachings of controlled burns and the importance of embracing fire rather than suppressing it. As the prescribed burns ignite from Florinda’s hands, an archival portal is birthed.” –BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC

Total running time: ca. 85 min.
Wed, Sept 23 at 7:00. Followed by a conversation between Yasmina Price and writer, editor, and critic Jessica Lynne!

BO HARWOOD — RECORD RELEASE EVENT!
JOHN CASSAVETES’S THE KILLING OF A CHINESE BOOKIE
September 27
This screening is presented on the occasion of the launch of a new LP devoted to the work of Bo Harwood (1946-2022), the composer whose music appears throughout John Cassavetes’s films and whose songs and compositions were often made with Cassavetes’s participation. The record brings together eleven recordings straight from the master tapes held by Bo during his lifetime, including music from THE KILLING OF A CHINESE BOOKIE, A WOMAN UNDER THE INFLUENCE, OPENING NIGHT, and LOVE STREAMS, as well as “Bach Train” and other compositions. The LP will be available for purchase at the screening (with a discounted price for ticket-holders).

The event is organized by Yana Foqué, who initiated the project, with the support of the estate of Bo Harwood. It is hosted by Anthology Film Archives, with support from Grazer Kunstverein, where the LP will also be presented.

John Cassavetes
THE KILLING OF A CHINESE BOOKIE
1976, 108 min (1978 re-release version), 35mm
Cosmo Vittelli (Ben Gazzara) owns a small Los Angeles strip club, the Crazy Horse West. After paying off a gambling debt to a group of gangsters, he finds himself in their debt once again. What begins as a night of obligation gradually pulls Cosmo into a world of violence, performance, loyalty, and survival. Cassavetes follows Cosmo through the clubs, restaurants, cars, and back rooms of Los Angeles, moving between the artificiality of the stage and the uncertain reality beyond it. With its long takes, abrupt shifts in tone, and performances that move freely between theatricality and intimacy, THE KILLING OF A CHINESE BOOKIE is one of Cassavetes’s most elusive and singular films. A classic, the film is graced by a peerless performance from Ben Gazzara as Cosmo.
Sun, Sept 27 at 3:45.

STILL LIFE (2006)

RUBBLE ON SCREEN: THE CINEMA OF DEMOLITION AND DESTRUCTION
September 18 – 24
If there is one defining image of modern war, it is the pile of rubble. The spectacular nature of conflict, and its near constant presence on our screens, raises urgent questions about how destruction is depicted in popular visual media. This is particularly true within the moving image, where imagery of destruction has fascinated audiences since the cinema’s inception, beginning with the Lumière brothers’ 1895 film DEMOLITION D’UN MUR, in which four men demolish a brick wall, only for the footage to be reversed, causing the wall to reconstruct itself.

What makes cinematic destruction so captivating may be its real-time recording of the event itself. There are also political and social implications of such a real-time moving image. Per Siegfried Kracauer, the movies were uniquely suited to reveal matters of chance, a fortuitousness which is exemplified in cinema’s depiction of the street, a site where, according to Kracauer, “the accidental prevails over the providential.” This attunement to the contingent illustrates cinema’s ability to short circuit manufactured narratives, which in the context of demolition cinema, are often spoken in the official language of “urban renewal.” It is a site where meaning flows from the material world to the camera and then to the spectator, enabling filmmakers to illustrate the complex dynamics of civilization through acts of demolition and deconstruction.

This series adopts an inquisitive gaze on the depiction of material demolition and destruction across time, culture, and geography. The seven programs are organized thematically, with some pairings reflecting a shared ethos. What are the human costs of destruction? Is there a qualitative difference between “demolition” and “destruction” on screen? How and why are these images deployed, and by whom? By posing these questions, the series seeks to expand our understanding of the moving image as both an indexical medium and a site of meaning-making.

Guest-programmed by Mako Fukata and Sam Schiffer, who wrote the introduction above.

Special thanks to Dominic Angerame; Brian Belovarac (Janus Films); Jacob Burckhardt; Bob Hunter (Icarus Films); Rebecca Cleman, Karl McCool, and Jooyoung Park (EAI); Hanan Coumal (LUX); Jonathan Howell (Big World Pictures); Brett Kashmere & Zachary Epcar (Canyon Cinema); Kristin MacDonough & Emily Martin (VDB); Alba Manzanas Sanchez & Samir Mechbal (Mediapro Studio Distribution); Edward McCarry (Cinema Guild); Julia Petrocelli (Film-Makers’ Coop); Tikkun Olam Productions; and Gerald Weber (sixpack).

PROGRAM 3: STATE POWER
Rather than engendering solidarity and empathy through the depiction of destruction of social and material Palestinian life in the present tense, Cynthia Madansky’s STILL LIFE chooses instead to take spectators on a tour of the Occupied Territories after the bulldozers have rumbled through and the bombs have fallen. Hanging its power on aftermath, STILL LIFE reaches instead for a set of festering implications and associations triggered via images, musical composition, and spoken questions. Like many of the other films in this series, NO OTHER LAND preserves in the visual archive what will likely be lost. Shot over the course of five years and by a collective of four directors from Palestine and Israel, NO OTHER LAND shocks in its immediacy and palpable danger as an SOS call from Masafer Yatta, a front line of the Palestinian struggle.

Yuval Abraham, Basel Adra, Hamdan Ballal, and Rachel Szor
NO OTHER LAND
2024, 92 min, DCP. In Arabic, English, and Hebrew with English subtitles.

Preceded by:
Cynthia Madansky STILL LIFE 2004, 15 min, Super-8mm-to-digital. Sound design by Zeena Parkins.

Total running time: ca. 110 min.
Wed, Sept 23 at 6:30.

PROGRAM 6: STILL LIFE
Jia Zhangke
STILL LIFE / 三峡好人
2006, 111 min, DCP. In Mandarin, Jin, and Sichuanese with English subtitles.
If Jia Zhangke’s breakout film PLATFORM (2000) was about the destruction of China’s social fabric as it transitioned from Mao to Deng Xiaoping, then Jia’s 2006 Golden Lion winner STILL LIFE focuses on the physical destruction of the built environment as the country ventures through another epochal shift. Like Ou Ning’s MEISHI STREET, STILL LIFE is firmly located during what Western observers routinely note as the era of a “rising China.” A few years after the country’s admittance to the WTO, a couple years before Beijing hosted the 2008 Olympics, and during a time of rising GDP, STILL LIFE asks, in literal terms, whether a rising tide indeed lifts all boats. Shot on location in Fengjie, a town along the Yangtze River in central China, the film centers on two people as they search for their spouses in the city, slowly being demolished to make way for the Three Gorges Dam. Slated to be flooded by the dam’s reservoir, the town is replete with hand painted red lines on the sides of buildings that indicate the imminent water levels, offering a stark warning for those below the line to get out while they can. Like Pedro Costa’s IN VANDA’S ROOM, STILL LIFE is filmed on digital video, lending it not only a documentary aesthetic (emblematic of the Urban Generation of Chinese independent filmmakers at the time), but one of uncanny immediacy. Jia, embracing the xianchang spirit of on-the-ground filmmaking, has argued that the documentarian must allow themself to be “seared” by the immediate present. The traces of the people and buildings of Fengjie, though now relocated and demolished, respectively, become irrevocably imprinted on STILL LIFE and its maker.
Wed, Sept 23 at 9:00.

PROGRAM 4: IN VANDA’S ROOM
Pedro Costa
IN VANDA’S ROOM / NO QUARTO DA VANDA
2000, 171 min, DCP. In Portuguese with English subtitles.
The second in his Fontainhas trilogy, IN VANDA’S ROOM follows heroin addict Vanda Duarte and a group of struggling slum dwellers as they try to make a life amid the demolition of their Lisbon neighborhood. Between Vanda’s raucous coughing fits and the clicks of her butane lighter, Costa’s extreme long takes, filmed in austere digital video, capture the sound of her built environs collapsing around her. Unlike the Barcelona neighborhood in EN CONSTRUCCIÓN, though, Fontainhas was wiped from the map by city officials, irredeemable in the eyes of the state, its inhabitants moved elsewhere. Today, it no longer stands, but remains embalmed in the images of Costa’s film.

IN VANDA’S ROOM probes the limit of what cinema is and is capable of, not only in its content, which is bleak and harrowing to be sure, but in its form. Like many films in this series, it is uninterested in the distinction between fiction and documentary, choosing instead to capture life in its essence by whatever means necessary. André Bazin wrote that photography, and by extension cinema, satisfied the deep need that man had for an image that was not an approximation, but was the object itself, “freed from the conditions of time and space that govern it.” Sometimes, truth must be freed from the conditions of the objectively real: Costa proclaimed that he filmed some scenes multiple times until they “became fluidly represented and detached of any melodramatic tone.” Often, truth requires some coaxing.
Thurs, Sept 24 at 7:00.

NARROW ROOMS: JERKER
September 24
In an era of gay big-screen romances, Cable-TV Christmas movies, and prestige Oscar-bait, there’s no shortage of affirming content for homocathected cineastes. Recent years have seen an establishment of a “gay film canon” that pops up on streaming services during Pride month. But there are hundreds of stranger, darker, and more exhilarating films that often fall through the cracks. “Narrow Rooms” is a series that celebrates these weird gay films, historically ignored or derided but shared like viruses amongst lovers of edgy, unvarnished queer cinema. Taking its name from James Purdy’s twisted gay S&M Southern Gothic novel, “Narrow Rooms” is a celebration of film faggotry, gay villains, horny homos, and heterodoxy. After 12 years co-curating the acclaimed artist-selected Queer/Art/Film series and programming for mainstream LGBT film festivals, filmmaker and writer Adam Baran picks his own favorite flicks for adventurous audiences at Anthology Film Archives, an institution that has celebrated edgy, shocking, groundbreaking gay cinema for over 50 years.
 
“Narrow Rooms” is curated and presented by Adam Baran.

Hugh Harrison
JERKER
1991, 90 min, DCP
In a San Francisco apartment, in 1985, Bert is just about to fall asleep when a stranger named J.R. calls. “You hard?” he asks Bert, and the two begin a hot and heavy phone sex session that soon turns into a nightly routine. Over the span of a year, we watch as Bert (Tom Wagner) and J.R. (Joseph Stachura) explore their fantasies, get each other off, and forge a deeper connection that allows them to open up to each other about their fears and sorrows surrounding the AIDS epidemic, all without ever meeting face to face. Playwright Robert Chesley wryly called his groundbreaking 1986 play JERKER “a pornographic elegy with redeeming social value and a hymn to the queer men of San Francisco,” which perhaps sought to preempt the inevitable criticism and censorship of the play’s unabashedly sex-positive dialogue. Hugh Harrison’s smart, rarely seen 1991 adaptation combines the rich, raunchy text of Chesley’s play with the shot-on-video aesthetics of late 1980s gay adult films, making us feel as if we’re watching an especially well-written Jeff Stryker or Joey Stefano movie. Help us celebrate the 40th anniversary of JERKER’s theatrical premiere with this very special screening.
Thurs, Sept 24 at 7:30.

CURRENT PROGRAMMING FROM OUR FRIENDS:
• JEAN-LUC GODARD: UNMADE AND ABANDONED
September 15 – October 15 at L'Alliance New York
Over the course of his phenomenally productive career, Jean-Luc Godard had hundreds of unmade and abandoned projects. By setting a selection of Godard’s completed films in dialogue with others by him and a range of different directors, this program reveals the vast and varied phantom body of unrealized ventures that lie behind or in the intervals in his completed oeuvre and casts in relief his creative process. AFA members can email the membership desk to receive a special discount code for 20% off tickets!

ALANIS, screening Fri and Mon, October 2 and 5 in "Avatars of the Whore"

COMING SOON:
• COMBAT BREATHING
October 1 – 8
“Combat Breathing Vol. II: A Symposium on Aesthetics and Politics” is a multi-site platform, spanning film screenings, critical discussions, and focused workshops, unfolding throughout October. Drawing on the histories of Third Cinema and other anti-colonial and anti-imperial cultural movements, the film program at Anthology – curated by KJ Abudu and Adam HajYahia – considers how these traditions persist, mutate, and reemerge in the present. Organized into six chapters comprising twenty-seven films, “Combat Breathing” explores the convergences of aesthetics and politics: how they take form on screen; where the militant image resides today; how images index and reveal infrastructures of labor; the pervasiveness of and resistance to carceral logics; the strategic reappropriations of imaging technologies; and film’s capacity to institute and reorganize desire.

• AVATARS OF THE WHORE
October 2 – 13
In her book “Puta Life”, Juana María Rodríguez writes that the whore embodies the prurient fascination of society’s anxieties around money, sex, and power, which often reveal themselves in filmic representations of people working sex. These representations contribute to the common and tired tropes which inevitably depict sex workers – specifically women – as “trafficked” and as possessing loose “morals.” Guest-programmed by Ayanna Dozier, the second iteration of “Avatars of the Whore” (previously titled “Women, Workers, and Whores on Film”) examines a wide range of women working sex across the club, dungeon, street, and bayou to meet multifaceted ends that include breaking a curse, negotiating childcare, and seeking erotic enlightenment. The films gathered here reflect a diversity of experiences of working sex – through the various avatars of the profession – and combat the stigmatization of being a “whore.”

• MEMBERS ONLY: TWILIGHT ZONE ON 16MM
October 5
The benefits of an Anthology membership have always been plentiful: free admission to over 100 Essential Cinema programs, reduced admission to all other shows, and discounted AFA publications. But with our Members-Only screenings – free, open only to members, and including special receptions – we sweeten the pot even further. For the next Members-Only event, we present two episodes of THE TWILIGHT ZONE – the classic TIME ENOUGH AT LAST and the timely, extreme-heat-themed THE MIDNIGHT SUN – screening from 16mm prints that reside in Anthology’s collection (thanks to a donation by David Mulkins). The screening will culminate with a special, unannounced film!

Membership + Donations

There has never been a better time to support Anthology. Like many small arts organizations, Anthology is sensitive to the financial and administrative challenges of these times. By joining or renewing your membership, purchasing a membership for a friend, or making a tax-deductible donation of any amount, you can help to support our film exhibition and film preservation operations!

Join or renew your membership

Anthology Film Archives is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization and is partially funded by: