UID:539 | 2026-09-23 | "Drom" <office@dromnyc.com> | This Week at DROM:

HearFirst & CEG Present: Danielle Nicole w/ Honey Marmalade, Serkan Tumer, Schtick a Pole In It – Madonna Edition, GIRL EDM [DANCE PARTY], Vocal Gumbo, Queen of the Violin and Friends: Live!, Riki Rose & Nicole Zuraitis.
Having trouble viewing this email? View in browser

YOUR JOURNEY
THROUGH A WORLD OF MUSIC
For 19 years Drom has provided a space in the heart of East Village to celebrate cultural diversity in music from jazz and electronic to soul, hip-hop and world music.

HearFirst & CEG Present: Danielle Nicole w/ Honey Marmalade
Wednesday, September 23, 6:30pm

Tickets

Grammy-nominated blues and soul powerhouse Danielle Nicole performs live at DROM NYC on September 23. Experience an unforgettable night of American soul, blues, roots, and powerhouse vocals in the East Village.

Serkan Tumer
Thursday, September 24, 6:30pm

Tickets

Experience an intimate night of music with Serkan Tumer on September 22 at Drom. Known for his heartfelt songwriting and compelling stage presence, Serkan will perform original songs woven with personal stories.

Schtick A Pole In It: Madonna Edition (Fri 9/25) Comedy & Pole

Schtick A Pole In It: Madonna Edition (Sat 9/26) Comedy & Pole

Fri, Sep 25, 8:00pm

Sat, Sep 26, 8:00pm

Tickets

Tickets

NOT THAT INNOCENT (2000s DANCE PARTY)
Friday, September 25, 11:00pm

Tickets

It's getting hot in here... since you've been gone
Join us for a taste of a poison paradise as DJ Alex Jay keeps us dancin' till the world ends playing all the best pop & classic tunes from the 2000s

GIRL EDM (DANCE PARTY)
Saturday, September 26, 11:00pm

Tickets

We're crying in Demonias. We're boosting the bass. You either get it or you don’t.

Hyperpop, garage, trance, and dance music by the girls who are carrying electronic music right now such as:

Ninajirachi, PinkPantheress, Charli xcx, Jane Remover

Vocal Gumbo

Sunday, September 27, 6:30pm

Tickets

Vocal Gumbo: A Celebration of the Human Voice!
Vocal Gumbo and The Village Trip combine their missions for one spectacular night of music at Drom. Vocal Gumbo celebrates the diverse and gorgeous "village of vocalists"

Queen of the Violin and Friends: Live!
Monday, September 28, 6:30pm

Tickets

Following the release of QUEEN OF THE VIOLIN: Live!, violinist, recording artist, and bandleader Kersten Stevens brings her career-defining live album to New York City for an exclusive album celebration at Drom.

Riki Rose
Tuesday, September 29, 6:30pm

Tickets

Riki Rose grew up in the vibrant Satmer Hasidic community of Williamsburg, New York. Her upbringing was steeped in tradition, where she first encountered the rich tapestry of Yiddish culture and music. Despite the community’s insular nature

The Devil I Knew album release & Modern Songbook Society Scholarship Fundraiser
Wednesday, September 30, 6:00pm

Tickets

Nicole Zuraitis coined The Modern Songbook, a genre inspired by the American Songbook, which blends traditional structures with contemporary vocals. This event will showcase the ever changing nature of jazz, pop, folk, roots, blues, and soul. The Mod
DROM ON TOUR

BUY TICKETS HERE