UID:543 | 2026-09-23 | "Data & Society" <info@datasociety.net> | Our new report on data centers, power, and resistance in Pennsylvania; why “pacing the frontier” is not the answer; the real AI threat

September 23, 2026

AROUND THE INSTITUTE

 

The AI Factory: Data Centers, Power, and Resistance in Late Industrial Pennsylvania

With an estimated 137 active or proposed data center projects across Pennsylvania today, powerful “AI boosters” are pushing an image of the state as the seat of AI infrastructure and industrial development. But as Maia Woluchem, Livia Garofalo, Ana Carolina de Assis Nunes, Joan Mukogosi, and Cella Sum write in our new report, The AI Factory: Data Centers, Power, and Resistance in Late Industrial Pennsylvania, local communities are drawing very different lessons from their state’s industrial past, and they have their own visions for its future. Over 18 months of ethnographic fieldwork throughout Pennsylvania, these researchers saw that data centers are a lightning rod issue for broad, diverse communities that desire both prosperity and power. Meanwhile, for powerful corporations, data centers represent an Achilles heel. A detailed exploration of how technology is impacting people's lives, this report reveals the limits of AI’s supposed inevitability within Pennsylvania’s borders and beyond them.

Plus: The report points to an opening, and a demand, for policymakers to support the conditions that enable communities to democratically engage in decisions about AI infrastructure. Our companion one-pager offers policy recommendations that point the way forward.

And: TechCrunch reports on how our research illuminates what’s activating opposition to data centers. “The authors, who are critical of the way AI has been pitched, aren’t trying to measure the empirical impact of data centers, but instead want to understand the way people experience the debate over their construction,” Tim Fernholz writes. In coverage of the report in Inside Climate News, coauthor Maia Woluchem describes the nature of public opposition. “There are lots and lots of reasons for folks to feel upset, and reflect on these generations of theft, and they feel taken for granted,” she said. “So the data center becomes this symbol of larger remote systems, of inequality, of distrust, and really an instrument of power that folks are aiming to take back.” Meanwhile, with deep roots in Pittsburgh, coauthor Joan Mukogosi has seen the failed promises of big industries firsthand. In an op-ed for the Pittsburgh Tribune, she describes how the research team spoke to locals who refuse to be used and left behind by yet another kind of extractive industry. Amid today’s push for data centers, “Pittsburghers must ask: “Who will this ‘infrastructure of the future’ actually benefit?” she writes.

“PACING THE FRONTIER” IS NOT THE ANSWER

Recent incidents concerning rogue AI agents committing cyberattacks have catalyzed a unique moment of political attention on AI safety and regulation. In a letter to Congress, we caution against narrow and self-serving efforts by AI companies to “pace the frontier.” Instead, we urge policymakers to assert the public interest in AI governance, pursuing real public accountability rather than the preservation of corporate advantage. Specifically, we articulate a layered AI evaluation framework that includes clear standards for conducting assessments and enforceable obligations for developers and deploying organizations to mitigate harms and respond to findings. We also highlight the need to govern the entire AI ecosystem, focusing not only on frontier risks but on AI’s full scope: its development, deployment, material infrastructure, and impacts on everyday people.

Plus: In Tech Policy Press, AI on the Ground Program Director Ranjit Singh writes that framing the unauthorized activity of AI agents as “going rogue” obscures companies’ responsibility for the conditions that made such activity possible — and misses a critical opportunity to examine how these agents should be governed. “Even when agents’ particular course of action is unanticipated, builders and deployers remain responsible for maintaining the limits of agent activity,” he writes. “The key is for them to be able to coordinate oversight so that evidence of a failure reaches people with the authority to intervene.” For more, read our recent report The Oversight Fallacy: Why AI Agents Require More than Humans-in-the-Loop.

DEEPFAKES ARE THREATENING INFLUENCERS’ CREDIBILITY

As generative AI supercharges the creation of deepfakes, it amounts to “a new workplace threat” for influencers, who must fight “to preserve the credibility of their own likeness — the very asset that generates their income,” Arielle Pardes reports in The Guardian. “Their brand is their business,” Director of Research Alice Marwick tells Pardes. “If their brand takes a hit, so does everything in their business life.” With AI, “impersonation is much easier and much more convincing … [so] scams can be operated at a much larger scale.” And while platforms like Instagram and TikTok prohibit using AI or digital manipulation to replicate a person’s identity, they also profit from the proliferation of deepfakes: “The reality is that platforms make a lot of money off scams,” Marwick says.

Plus: Our primer ScamGPT: GenAI and the Automation of Fraud, written by Marwick, Lana Swartz, and Kate Larson, maps what we know about generative AI’s role in scams, the communities most at risk, and the broader economic and cultural shifts at play.

SEPTEMBER 28: WHO GETS TO DECIDE HOW AI ENTERS OUR SCHOOLS?

This is a pivotal year for shaping the role AI will play in American classrooms. Around the country, states have already begun distributing AI products across school districts, and this school year New York City's Department of Education has barred student AI use in elementary and middle schools. On September 28 at 6:30 p.m. ET, join us online or onsite at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Library (SNFL) in New York City as we explore what's at stake for the city's more than 1,700 schools and the millions of students and families they serve. This event marks the launch of the essential new book Coding Kids: Big Tech's Battle to Remake Public Schools, by New York Times reporter and Data & Society alum Natasha Singer. Singer will discuss her reporting on how tech companies are using schools to mainstream their AI tools with Amanda Lenhart, senior fellow at the Joan Ganz Cooney Center at the Sesame Workshop; and Scott Kern, a longtime teacher at North Star Academy in Newark, NJ and the AI innovation lead for Uncommon Schools. Following an introduction by Data & Society Executive Director Janet Haven, the conversation will be moderated by data journalist and NYU professor Meredith Broussard. RSVP and join us online or in-person!

Plus: In The New Yorker, Jessica Winter calls Coding Kids “an even-tempered yet withering narrative of how the nation’s public schools came under the spell of private corporations, exemplifying what the social psychologist Shoshana Zuboff defined as surveillance capitalism.”

OCTOBER 2: COMMUNITY-CENTERED AI INFRASTRUCTURE SUMMIT

Convening in Pittsburgh, the day-long Community-Centered AI Infrastructure Summit will bring together residents, community organizers, policymakers, researchers, technologists, energy experts, labor and environmental advocates, and others to consider the opportunities, challenges, and governance of AI infrastructure development in Pennsylvania. The summit, hosted at Carnegie Mellon University in partnership with Data & Society, the Center for Coalfield Justice, and the Pennsylvania Climate Equity Table, will create space to learn from community experiences and emerging research, examine policy responses, and identify shared priorities for more equitable, sustainable, and accountable AI infrastructure development. Learn more and RSVP to attend on-site or via livestream.

OCTOBER 7: POWER AND RESISTANCE IN THE AGE OF TECH OLIGARCHY

In Silicon Valley, economic, political, and state power have fused, and tech oligarchs like Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg are reshaping the world in their image. Two new books examine this decades-long trajectory from very different angles: In Muskism: A Guide for the Perplexed, Quinn Slobodian and Ben Tarnoff explore how figures like Musk embody a social system where technological infrastructure — from satellites to social media platforms — pave the road to a “freedom” rooted in reactionary geopolitics and racial hierarchies enforced by militarized violence. In Against Tech Oligarchy: Worker Resistance in the World’s Most Powerful Industry, JS Tan and Clarissa Redwine write about how many tech workers were attracted to the industry by a different kind of freedom, one that promised a more connected and democratic world. While in recent years this façade has crumbled, the authors show how the “dry kindling” that both set off and consumed tech workers’ collective action against oligarchic powers had been present in Silicon Valley all along. On October 7 at 2 p.m. ET, join Slobodian, Tan, and Redwine as they discuss the structural forces shaping tech and state power, and what lessons we can draw from the tech worker movement for building a different future, in a conversation moderated by Aiha Nguyen, director of Data & Society’s Labor Futures program. Learn more and RSVP to join us online.

FIELD NOTES

 

WHAT THE AI THREAT REALLY LOOKS LIKE

As the heads of AI companies warn about the capabilities of their products and advocate slowing down the development of powerful AI models, Tressie McMillan Cottom argues that “we should be paying equal attention to what these men stand to gain by feeding our panic about the technology they’ve long claimed is both essential and absolutely inevitable.” The tech oligarchs are selling us a story that serves their own interests, and they appear more willing to encourage fear than serious deliberation. “Panic is chaos without direction, affect set free from the discipline of curiosity, debate and accountability,” she writes in The New York Times. The companies want us to worry about dramatic, hypothetical threats instead of the ones that are already here, including the documented harms of chatbots, predictive algorithms, and surveillance. The remedy, McMillan Cottom says, is not panic but politics. Fellow Times columnist Jamelle Bouie agrees, and looks to the late 19th-century railroads as an example of how collective and democratic authority has been brought to bear on disruptive technologies in the past. “[N]ovel technologies do not actually require novel political solutions, especially when those technologies either evoke, replicate or recapitulate age-old problems of political and economic life,” he writes. “If AI promises to transform the entire society, then the entire society is entitled to have a say, even a decisive one, over the use, development and direction of the technology.”

Plus: In MIT Technology Review, Timnit Gebru and Emily M. Bender reflect on this summer of AI hype. Breathless claims about AGI and new capabilities fall apart pretty quickly under scrutiny, they write: “Claims of incipient, dangerous superintelligence are not based in good scientific or engineering practice. Rather, they are narratives based in ideologies of transhumanism, eugenics, and wishful thinking about imagined future digital humans.”

THE SILENCE OF AI THERAPY

Critiques of AI therapy that focus on AI’s sycophancy are premised on the outdated idea of the therapist as a “dispassionate technician,” as psychoanalyst Steven Barrie-Anthony sees it. This works to the advantage of tech companies: they believe bots can simply learn more effective techniques and interventions for mental health support. But in doing so, they overlook the value of therapists’ own capacity for feeling, which Barrie-Anthony argues is what ultimately makes a therapeutic interaction meaningful. Nonverbal communication also plays an important role in therapy, and chatbots miss out on anything that is not literally spelled out for them. “[W]henever I stopped typing, and might have dipped into the more meaningful recesses of myself, the chatbot in front of me was inert and lifeless,” he writes in The Atlantic, describing an experimental interaction with a popular AI emotional support tools. “Being silent with the chatbot did not feel like an invitation to being together, but rather like a kind of deadness. I felt the strong impulse to type quickly to spur the machine back to life.”

Plus: In a new preprint, “I Felt Very Seen, But Still Very Alone”: Longitudinal Trajectories of General-Purpose LLM Use for Socioemotional Support,” D&S researchers Meryl Ye, Briana Vecchione, Livia Garofalo, and Ranjit Singh describe a multi-stage longitudinal qualitative study they conducted with eighteen US adults who use general-purpose LLMs for mental health and emotional support, and how it enabled them to examine how socioemotional chatbot use developed and changed over time. “Understanding what a chatbot means to someone, and what happens when that relationship changes, requires considering both their history with the system and the other forms of support available to them,” they write.

NETWORK EVENTS

 

September 30, 2026

Governing AI for Workers and Consumers: NYC’s Public Approach

New York City Policy Forum

September 30, 2026

Archives and GenAI: Navigating a Changing Landscape

The Association of Moving Image Archivists

Was this email forwarded to you?

SUBSCRIBE TO THIS NEWSLETTER

For more information, visit datasociety.net.

Image by Surbhi Chawla

This newsletter is curated with support from Eryn Loeb, Surbhi Chawla, Katherine Heidecke, and Sona Rai.

Data & Society studies the social implications of data-centric technologies, automation, and AI.