UID:544 | 2026-09-23 | "MoMI News" <info@movingimage.org> | This weekend only: a blow-out Jim Henson Birthday Celebration, with rare puppets on view

MoMI News | September 23, 2026

View this email in your browser

MoMI NEWS | September 23, 2026

Dear will,

Fall is finally here, and it's only getting busier at MoMI! This weekend, join us for our four-day celebration of Jim Henson's 90th birthday, including never-before-exhibited puppets for this weekend only, many artist panels and events, lots of music, screenings with guests, and the special live music and performance show Jim Henson's Harmonious Hoopla; many of these events are free as part of our Open Worlds initiative. Plus, we have encores of David Cronenberg's brooding Dead Ringers in 35mm and Alfred Hitchcock's classic The Birds. 

Coming soon in Open Worlds: pop culture historian and collector Mike Drake explores the history of Life Masks in Cinema; author Ingrid Burrington leads an Internet Walk around Astoria; and applications are open for local makers to participate in our first artisan market, MoMI Merch Meet.

Coming up: our screening series Handcrafted Horrors kicks off on October 3, featuring cinematic nightmares including The Creature from the Black Lagoon in 3-D, Nosferatu with live musical accompaniment, and much more; plus David Lynch's surreal final feature Inland Empire. NYFF-at-MoMI tickets are mostly sold out, but limited tickets are still available for Pedro Almodóvar's Bitter Christmas. For all other sold-out screenings, standby tickets may become available on the evening of each screening. Also, this year's After Dark Tours are sold out—we're hoping to add more!

Finally, our Touch Object Experience returns this Saturday.

EXHIBITION HIGHLIGHT

New puppets on view: The Riverbottom Nightmare Band
On view September 24–27 only!

Never-before-exhibited puppets—Chuck Stoat, Stanley Weasel, and Howard Snake of the Riverbottom Nightmare Band—from Emmet Otter's Jug-Band Christmas will be on view in our lobby during this weekend's Henson 90th birthday bash. And remember: you can see more than 50 puppets in The Jim Henson Exhibition on the Museum's second floor!

OPPORTUNITIES AT MoMI

Applications for the 2026–2027 Teen Council Program are now open!  A part of the Teen Digital Media Innovators program, Teen Council is a job development program for NYC teens interested in the media arts who want a behind-the-scenes look at how a media museum works. Members curate and program public events for youth, including film festivals, media workshops, and more.

Seeking vendors for the first MoMI Merch Meet on Saturday, November 22! Are you a local maker whose work—including art, hats, shirts, buttons, jewelry, toys, zines, comics, housewares, and more—showcases creative expressions of love for the moving image? For more information, email publicprograms@movingimage.org. 

NOW SHOWING

Celebrating Jim Henson's 90th Birthday
September 24–27

Join MoMI to commemorate Jim Henson’s birthday (September 24, 1936) with a special four-day celebration in honor of what would have been his 90th year. This fun weekend for all ages kicks off with a special presentation of Jim Henson's Harmonious Hoopla, and features a slew of special guests, screenings, puppet workshops, collectible swap meet, live music in the courtyard, and more! Check out our weekend guide here.

Dead Ringers (35mm)
Friday, September 25, 7:00 p.m.

In David Cronenberg’s brooding and outrageous exploration of a true story, Jeremy Irons gives one of the most complex and moving double performances in cinema history, playing twin gynecologists who develop a truly twisted relationship with a patient.

Part of Overexposed: Through and Through and Science on Screen, free for MoMI members

The Birds
Saturday, September 26, 6:30 p.m. 

Especially experienced on the big screen, Alfred Hitchcock’s 1963 horror film, a boldly music-free master class in mounting and inexplicable dread, feels properly apocalyptic, a film that begins as a romcom and ends as an unending screech from the void.

Part of Practical Magic, free for MoMI members

FREE OPEN WORLDS EVENTS
Lead Supporter: William Fox, Jr. Foundation. Open Worlds: Science programs are supported by the Simons Foundation.

Life Masks in Cinema
Sunday, October 4, 1:00 p.m.

Join pop culture historian and collector Mike Drake for an engaging presentation exploring the history of life masks in film, how they are made, and the surprising ways they continue to be used today. 

Free with RSVP. One lucky attendee will receive a life mask to take home and begin their own cinematic collection. 

MoMI LAB
Free hours: Thursday, 2:00–6:00. Friday, 2:00–8:00. Saturday & Sunday, 11:00–6:00

Encounter drop-in interactive experiences as well as deep-learning stations around emerging technologies and the moving image, all facilitated by Museum educators. New: join free demos and tours (every Thursday and Friday) and learn about upcoming free workshops.

COMING SOON

Handcrafted Horrors
October 3–31

The history of cinematic horror is also a history of practical effects. The best films of the genre have classically found ways to visualize the impossible using ingenious on-set tricks and treats, hand-drawn animation, and makeup. This Halloween season, we’re pleased to present a buffet of monster-pieces, including The Creature from the Black Lagoon (presented in 3-D!), Carnival of Souls, Fantasia, Faust, The Exorcist, Nosferatu with live musical accompaniment, Bram Stoker's Dracula, and more.

The Creature from the Black Lagoon in 3-D
Saturday, October 3, 1:00 p.m.

Beloved for its brilliantly designed monster, as well as for its trailblazing use of 3-D, Jack Arnold's Creature from the Black Lagoon remains a touchstone of Hollywood horror.

Part of Handcrafted Horrors

Carnival of Souls
Saturday, October 3, 3:00 p.m.

One of the greatest low-budget American creepshows ever made, Herk Harvey's maximally eerie trip into the surreal has proven wildly influential—and unforgettable to anyone who has surrendered to its peculiar powers. 

Part of Handcrafted Horrors

Inland Empire
Friday, October 2, 6:30 p.m.

In David Lynch's masterful, surreal final film, an actress (Laura Dern) plunges into Hollywood’s seedy underbelly, attempting her comeback in a cursed production.

Part of Reverse Shot Presents, free for MoMI members

NYFF at MoMI
October 4–9

MoMI will again partner with Film at Lincoln Center to present New York Film Festival screenings at the Museum. A limited number of tickets are still available for Pedro Almodóvar's Bitter Christmas (pictured)! 

The Adventures of Prince Achmed (35mm)—100th anniversary
Saturday, October 10, 1:00 p.m.

The 1926 feature-length animated feature from Lotte Reiniger will be presented in 35mm with live musical accompaniment by Charlie Judkins and preceded by a lecture by Whitney Grace, author of Lotte Reiniger: Pioneer of Film Animation.

Part of World of Animation, free for MoMI members

Two “Films Maudit” with J. Hoberman
Sunday, October 11

Critic and author J. Hoberman presents Richard Kelly’s multi-verse political comic book saga Southland Tales and Michael Powell’s meta-slasher Peeping Tom, two titles that were loathed upon their respective premieres in 2006 and 1960, but which have benefited considerably from appreciation in the rear-view mirror. With book signing.

And don't forget these offers and amenities:
 * Free gallery hours every Thursday, 2:00–6:00 p.m.
 * Friday Date Night: bring your sweetie or friend to MoMI with this special deal.
 * Take a break at Mon Amour Coffee & Wine in our lobby.
 * Open Worlds: free access to our ground-floor spaces during Museum hours.

REVERSE SHOT AND SLOAN SCIENCE & FILM

Reverse Shot Interview:
John Wilson (The History of Concrete)

John Wilson's first feature film The History of Concrete explores the foundational material that holds New York City together, before going off on wildly disparate tangents. Wilson spoke with Reverse Shot critic Connor Williams about drawing poetry from concrete, his thoughts on public housing, and his favorite Frederick Wiseman films. 

Read the interview here.

Sloan Science and Film:
Director Interview—Daniel Zvereff on Moonfish

Making its world premiere at the 2026 Venice International Film Festival, Daniel Zvereff’s Moonfish is an animated feature set in deep space that follows a lonely astronaut and his companion fish. We spoke with Zvereff from Venice about worldbuilding, his inspirations, and the tools he used to make Moonfish.

Read the interview here.

MoMI acknlowledges the following programmatic and institutional support:

Overexposed: Art, Technology, and the Body: Lead support was provided by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts. Additional generous support was provided by Romy Cohen, The Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, Elaine Goldman, May & Samuel Rudin Family Foundation, and Doug Pugh.

Open Worlds 2026: Programmatic support provided by New York City Council, NYC Department of Cultural Affairs, Bank of America, the William Fox, Jr. Foundation, New York State Council on the Arts, and the Office of the Queens Borough President Donovan Richards. Open Worlds: Science programs supported by the Simons Foundation.

Public Support: The Museum gratefully acknowledges the leadership and assistance of: Mayor Zohran Mamdani; Queens Borough President Donovan Richards, Jr.; Speaker of the New York City Council Julie Menin; the entire Queens delegation of the New York City Council; Commissioner of the NYC Department of Cultural Affairs Diya Vij; Governor Kathy Hochul; New York State Senator Michael N. Gianaris; New York State Senator Kristen Gonzalez; New York Assemblymember Diana Moreno; Senator Chuck Schumer; Senator Kirsten Gillibrand; Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez; Dormitory Authority of New York State; New York City Department of Cultural Affairs; New York City Department of Citywide Administrative Services; Regional Economic Development Council.