UID:545 | 2026-09-24 | "e-flux Agenda" <art-agenda@mailer.e-flux.com> | De Atelier presents House of Day, House of Night at Woonhuis

This group show brings together the work of the second years participants of De Ateliers. With: Ant…

  

House of Day, House of Night

Woonhuis

Anthony Chiou, there is no house at day but shelter at night, 2026. Color pencil on 160gr paper, 21 x 29.7 cm. Courtesy of the artist.

HOUSE OF DAY, HOUSE OF NIGHT

September 24–October 31, 2026

Woonhuis
Entrance via the right side in the alley
Stadhouderskade 86
Amsterdam, 1073AT
The Netherlands
Hours: Thursday–Saturday 1–6pm

www.woonhuis.de-ateliers.nl
Instagram

This group show brings together the work of the second years participants of De Ateliers.

With: Anthony Chiou, Blair Lam Hiu Suet, Jette Kelholt, Luīze Nežberte, Matthew Cosslett, Pauline Schey, Salar Marri, Taiyo Shimizu Larenas, Victoria Hvass, Zainab Aldehaimy.

House of Day, House of Night is the title of a book by nobel prize winner Olga Tokarczuk. It is chosen for this show for the theme of synchronicity in her work; meaningful coincidences that seem to defy conventional logic. It emphasises that the world is inherently interconnected, and that meaningful coincidences offer glimpses into this hidden unity.

“If someone were able to research this idea properly, if they could quantify the characters, images and emotions that appear in dreams, strip them of their motifs, and apply statistics, including all those correlation tests that work like a magic glue, linking things together that would seem impossible to connect, maybe they would discover some sense in it all, like the pattern according to which, here in this world, stock exchanges function, or large airports operate–a map of subtle connections or fixed timetables. Incalculable presentiments and precise algorithms.” From: House of Day, House of Night, Olga Tokarczuk, 1998

Curated by Rezi van Lankveld

Contact

Facebook
X
Instagram

e-flux App

172 Classon Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11205
USA

This announcement was sent to wf.eventScout@gmail.com. You have received it because you have successfully subscribed to e-flux Agenda. You can revoke your consent and