UID:547 | 2026-09-24 | "Verso Books" <verso@versobooks.com> | 📚 Take an early look at what we're publishing in October 📚

We've got important new titles on Israel/Palestine, on resistance in the age of AI, and we're launching our Hundred Flowers series with three new books

Falastiniyyat
A Century of Palestinian Feminisms
by Nada Elia

Falastiniyyat rescues Palestinian feminism from obscurity. Furthermore, Nada Elia argues that these activists were pioneers of a uniquely intersectional, antiimperial feminist politics. Far from being a Western import, local feminism consistently linked personal empowerment with collective liberation, anticolonial struggle with social transformation.

"Elia weaves narrative, urgency, and intimacy spanning a century and continents to provide a remarkable history of Palestinian feminism." – Noura Erakat, Professor and Author of Justice for Some

On Un/Certainty
The Uses of Doubt in Dangerous Times
by Natasha Lennard

We live in uncertain times. But what does uncertainty mean for our ability to act?

Drawing on the philosophy of Ludwig Wittgenstein and placing his work alongside thinkers rarely put into conversation, Lennard contends with the nature of certainty, identity, and ideology as we struggle into the future.

"Amidst inflationary talk of uncertainty and crisis, Lennard makes a bracing case, instead, for the critique of pernicious certainties." – Adam Tooze

Algorithmic Capital
Resistance in the Age of Artificial Intelligence
by Jonathan Durand Folco and Jonathan Martineau

AI and algorithms are more than technologies. They are rooted in new capitalist forms and processes that transcend economics and technology to reshape social reality, politics, culture, and subjectivities.
Set out in twenty theses—stretching across geopolitics, the mining of rare earths, labor, crypto, influencers, climate change, Gen AI, social acceleration, Silicon Valley ideologies, and predictive policing—this book situates contemporary social change in the context of the advent of algorithmic capital.

"In 20 theses, this book develops a powerful, critical and multidimensional way of thinking about the algorithmic logic and artificial intelligence that are transforming our lives today." – Aurélien Berthier

Shop Forthcoming Verso Titles

On the Verso Blog:

Fredric Jameson | April 14, 1934 - September 22, 2024

Celebrate Jameson's legacy by reading his works and the many essays written about his contributions from our "Jameson at 90" blog series.

Read it on the Verso Blog

Now available: The Full English by Lewis Bassett

What is English food? The award-winning podcaster Lewis Bassett is a chef in search of an answer.

Shop new Verso titles and save 30% on related books

No longer want to receive these emails?