UID:549 | 2026-09-24 | "SculptureCenter" <info@sculpture-center.org> | Now on view | Aziz Hazara: Coming Home, Cevdet Erek: Americas, and Yining Fei: Feral Sediment

AZIZ HAZARA, CEVDET EREK, AND YINING FEI

On view through Dec 28, 2o26

Aziz Hazara: Coming Home, SculptureCenter, New York, 2026, installation view. Courtesy the artist and Experimenter. Photo: Charles Benton

Now on view: 

Aziz Hazara: Coming Home
On view: Sep 19–Dec 28, 2026

During the U.S.-led NATO occupation of Afghanistan from 2001–21, the American military established a complex multinational supply chain to sustain what resembled a suburban enclave around Bagram Airfield, near Kabul. Working with networks of local brokers, scrap dealers, and intermediaries who had long operated around the airfield’s waste economy, Aziz Hazara gathered items ranging from kneepads and uniforms to electronics, exercise equipment, recreational tools, kitchenware, tents, and fragments of infrastructure. Aziz Hazara: Coming Home seeks to return material discarded in Afghanistan following the American military’s abrupt withdrawal.

Cevdet Erek: Americas
On view: Sep 19–Dec 28, 2026

Trained as an architect and sound engineer, and active as a musician, Cevdet Erek assembles installations that reconfigure how a visitor perceives space—tuning into the material qualities of architecture and the social, historical, and geographical conditions they occupy. Americas arranges five of Erek’s site-responsive sonic works, developed over the last decade for projects in Mexico City, Chicago, San Francisco, São Paulo, and the U.S. Embassy in The Hague alongside a new commission for SculptureCenter. Presented during a period of heightened instability in the United States and weakened global relationships, it points to the expansibility of the continent, its multivocal histories, social and sonic rhythms, and resonances across the region and beyond.

Yining Fei: Feral Sediment
On view: Sep 19–Dec 28, 2026

Yining Fei’s first solo exhibition in the U.S. centers on the milu (Père David’s deer). After living in the Qing Imperial Hunting Ground for hundreds of years, milu suffered local extinction in the early twentieth century, surviving as a species only because a small number had been transported to European zoos. In 2025, Fei conducted fieldwork following the rewilding initiative of returned milu. This exhibition of ceramic sculptures in the form of deer viscera reimagines a deer’s body, inventing an interiority shaped by histories of domestication.

Recent Press:

“Aziz Hazara Sends US Military Waste Home”
Ahmad Azizy
Frieze | Issue 261 

Upcoming Events:

Henrike Naumann: The Home Front Book Launch
Fri, Sep 25, 2026, 6–8pm

Major support for Aziz Hazara: Coming Home is provided by Patrick Collins. Generous support is provided by Teiger Foundation. Additional funding is provided by Carla Chammas and Judi Roaman.

SAHA - provided support for Cevdet Erek: Americas.
  
Generous support for Cevdet Erek: Americas is provided by Bilge Ogut-Cumbusyan and Haro Cumbusyan, and the SAHA x TPF Art Circle. 
 
Special thanks to neugerriemschneider, Berlin, and Koray Duman.
 

Support for Yining Fei: Feral Sediment is provided by Ally Yanxiu Luo. 

Support for all of SculptureCenter’s work with artists from abroad is provided by the International Council: Anonymous, Stephen Cheng, Yan Du, Thomas Berger, Shareen Khattar, Kenneth Tan, Füsun Eczacıbaşı - SAHA, Selin Gülçelik, Emin Hitay, Tansa Mermerci, Antonio Murzi and Diana Morgan, Felekşan Onar, Ferruh Şenkaya, Berna Tuğlular, Koza Güreli Yazgan, Yuan Han Li, and Audrey Rose Smith and Vicente Muñoz.
 

Leadership support for SculptureCenter’s exhibitions and programs is provided by Anna-Maria and Stephen Kellen Foundation, Barbara von Portatius, and Teiger Foundation. Major support is provided by Richard Chang, Jill and Peter Kraus, Miyoung Lee and Neil Simpkins, Eleanor Heyman Propp, Jacques Louis Vidal, and The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts. Generous support is provided by Candy and Michael Barasch, Jane Hait and Justin Beal, Gabrielle Humphrey, Amy and Sean Lyons, Lily Lyons, Ronay and Richard Menschel, Poppy Pulitzer, and Alexander S.C. Rower. Additional funding is provided by Ben Ackerley, Charmaine and Roman Mendoza, Matt and Elizabeth Quigley, Katharine Ristich, Julien Sarkozy, Carla Shen, Kristina Wong Foster, and Lisa Young and Steven Abraham.

Leadership support for SculptureCenter’s annual operations is provided by the Lambent Foundation Fund of Tides Foundation. Major support is provided by Irene and Allen H. Brill, the Hartwig Art Foundation, and the A. Woodner Fund. Generous support is provided by Andrew Fine and David Andersson, Zenas Hutcheson/The Knox Foundation, Marinela Samourkas, our Board of Trustees, and many charitable individuals and friends.

SculptureCenter’s programming and operations are supported, in part, by public funds from the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs in partnership with the City Council, the New York State Council on the Arts with the support of the Office of the Governor and the New York State Legislature, and Queens Borough President Donovan Richards.
 

SculptureCenter acknowledges the generous funding provided by the Collaborative Arts Network New York (CANNY), made possible through support from the Helen Frankenthaler Foundation, The Hearthland Foundation, David Rockefeller Fund, and Arison Arts Foundation. CANNY is a coalition of small to mid-sized multidisciplinary arts organizations, working to strengthen the infrastructure of arts nonprofits across New York. For more information about CANNY and its mission, please visit

44-19 Purves Street
Long Island City, NY 11101
Open Thu–Mon
12pm–6pm

info@sculpture-center.org

Facebook
Instagram
Twitter