UID:553 | 2026-09-24 | "NYU Game Center" <gamecenter@nyu.edu> | Applications open for Experimental Games Showcase, GDoCE continues on, and we're hiring!

Upcoming events, and more...

This Week:

Game Devs of Color Expo 2026
Wednesday, Sept. 22nd through Friday, Sept. 25th
Online and at OSNYC on 09/25
More info below!

Playtest Thursday
Thursday, September 24th, 5:30pm - 7:30pm
370 Jay Street, Room 233
External Guests Join the Guest List Here

Next Week:

Playtest Thursday
Thursday, October 1st, 5:30pm - 7:30pm
370 Jay Street, Room 233
External Guests Join the Guest List Here

Submissions Open for Experimental Games Showcase at GDC 2027

APPLICATIONS ARE NOW OPEN FOR THE 2027 EXPERIMENTAL GAMES SHOWCASE AT GDC! 

The Experimental Games Showcase (ExGS), formerly known as the Experimental Game Workshop, is a session of about a dozen curated microtalks where developers of experimental games talk about their own design process and creative expression. The session has been a yearly tradition at the Game Developers Conference (GDC) in San Francisco since 2002 . Over its long history, ExGS has featured a wide assortment of presentations on games of all types, shapes and sizes.

The ExGS is in part organized by and regularly features Game Center community members, as well as amazing local NYC indies! This is a great opportunity to get your game in front of a large like-minded audience and institutional supporters at a major industry conference.

Applications close on October 23rd, to apply and read more info, check out the link below.

Apply and More Info Here!

Game Devs of Color Expo

GAME DEVS OF COLOR EXPO 2026 RETURNS FOR ITS 11TH YEAR! 

The GDoCExpo conference brings together game creators from around the world for an online conference featuring talks, panels, interviews, networking and social sessions, community demos, the GDoCExpo Direct, Steam Sale, grant awards, in-person watch parties, and more. Celebrate creativity and culture in games, and make new connections across the industry!

 * September 22-25, 2026
 * Online
 * Get 10% off tickets with code gdocAcademic -  
 * Can't afford a ticket? Apply for a need-based free ticket

Notable NYU Alumni and incubator projects will be featured as conference speakers, game showcases, and grant award nominees, including, Chris Kindred, Geneva Heyward, Bloomsome, and coalescent || tidal rapture!

GDoCExpo NYC Watch Party

Everyone is welcome! Experience Game Devs of Color Expo in-person at the NYC Watch Party. Watch the conference and GDoCExpo Direct together on the big screen, network, play, and share your games with New York City's game development community. Special thanks to Brian Chung ‘20 who is offering the NYU Game Center and community free tickets to attend (normally $10) to the in-person Watch Party!
 

 * September 25, 12pm - 10pm
 * OS NYC, 50 Bowery, New York City
 * For free tickets (normally $10) use code gdocNYU -  

More info here!

We're Hiring!

 

The NYU Game Center is searching for a Programs and Grants Administrator to join our admin team!

This role will support several key areas of the department’s work, including:
 * Program administration and coordination across Game Center initiatives
 * Management and reporting for the Center of Excellence (CoE) grant, including compliance, budgeting, and long-term sustainability
 * Support for the Game Center Incubator and related industry-facing programming
 * Close collaboration with our Program Administrator & Industry Liaison on industry partnerships, student opportunities, and professional programming

This is a great opportunity for someone interested in the intersection of games, higher education, industry partnerships, program administration, and grant management. The position also involves occasional travel throughout the year.

More info and apply here!

New York Games Week

NEW YORK GAMES WEEK IS COMING SOON!

The inaugural New York Games Week, a grand celebration of the video game industry and community, will feature events, showcases, conferences, tournaments, summits, professional mixers, and meetups across the five boroughs of New York City from Oct 4 - 11. You can read more about it in this Variety article here.

 

The NYU Game Center will be participating in a handful of events, including:

GDFL Cohort Celebration
Tuesday, October 6th, 6:00pm - 9:00pm
Location TBA
Attendance is by invitation - request an invitation here

On the evening of October 6th, our colleagues are hosting a Demo Day to send off GDFL Cohort 001 and welcome Cohort 002!

The NYC Game Design Future Lab is a games incubator at NYU Tandon, supported by the New York City Economic Development Corporation. Each year we take a cohort of NYC studios and creative technology companies and give them twelve months of space, mentorship and industry access at 370 Jay St.

Playtest Thursday - NY Games Week Edition
Thursday, October 8th, 5:30pm - 7:30pm
370 Jay Street, Room 233
Join the PTT guest list here

If you're going to attend only one Playtest Thursday this year, make it this one! Join us for an extra special Playtest Thursday, with special collaborations to be announced!

More info here!

NYU Game Center would like to thank our event sponsors.
  Their generous support makes our events possible.
Take-Two Interactive
Empire State Development