UID:558 | 2026-09-24 | "UnionDocs" <info@uniondocs.org> | Laura Poitras, Rachel Lauren Mueller and Jad Abumrad on How to Document “Unprecedented Times.” Plus Jessica Sarah Rinland explores Narcisa Hirsch’s radical interventions beyond the screen.

UnionDocs Newsletter
                                                                                                                            

NARCISA HIRSCH: GRAFFITI, FILM & POLITICAL GESTURE

----------------------------------------

Jessica Sarah Rinland traces a radical practice shaped under Argentina’s military dictatorship.

Sunday, September 27 — 7:30PM

We’re delighted to welcome filmmaker and artist Jessica Sarah Rinland back to UnionDocs for a special evening exploring the work of pioneering Argentine experimental filmmaker and artist Narcisa Hirsch. Emerging from Rinland’s ongoing research for a book centered on Hirsch’s graffiti made during Argentina’s 1976–83 military dictatorship, the program brings together performance, reading, and a selection of Hirsch’s films to trace connections between her moving-image work and the gestures, inscriptions, and interventions she made beyond the screen. Moving across film, performance, photography, and public intervention, Rinland will consider graffiti as both a political and artistic gesture, opening onto a broader history of making images and marks under conditions of repression. Filmmaker and artist Julián D’Angiolillo will be in conversation with Jessica. Join us for a close encounter with Hirsch’s singular practice through Rinland’s ongoing research. Come through!

Get Tickets

FALL OF FREEDOM — UNDER PRESSURE: HOW TO DOCUMENT “UNPRECEDENTED TIMES”

----------------------------------------

How can we continue to work critically, responsibly, and safely in a political landscape increasingly threatening to those organizing and documenting on the ground? 

Thursday, October 1 — 7:30PM

Presented as part of Fall of Freedom, this conversation brings together filmmakers and collaborators Rachel Lauren Mueller and Laura Poitras with radio producer and Radiolab creator Jad Abumrad to consider the practical and ethical questions facing political documentaries in the United States today. We’ll be taking Poitras and Mueller’s recent collaboration on They’re Here, a documentary about ICE’s occupation of Minneapolis as a starting point. They’ll draw from their experiences across on-the-ground organizing, investigative film, journalism, data, sound, and nonfiction storytelling to ask how makers navigate access and risk, protect sources and collaborators, and safeguard their teams and materials. Together, they’ll consider the technical, ethical, and communal infrastructures that make rigorous independent documentary possible, and how we might strengthen them together. Come through!

Get Tickets

 

UPCOMING

----------------------------------------

 

Friday, Oct 2 – 7:30pm Zodiac Killer Project With Charlie Shackleton & David Osit

From a chocolate biscuit to the Zodiac Killer. What happens when the filmmaker tells you exactly what they’re doing.

Sunday, Oct 4 – 7:30pm Under the Sky of Fetishes With Caroline Déodat & Yasmina Price

Moving between archive and fabulation, Déodat follows the traces of histories that refuse to disappear.

 

UNEASY ARRANGEMENTS: COLLAGE, ANIMATION & THE ARCHIVE

----------------------------------------

A workshop about unsettling, reassembling, and transforming images to uncover new meanings within the frame.

Oct 23 — Oct 25

Only a couple of spots left! In this three-day workshop, filmmaker and animator Kelly Sears leads an exploration of the politics and creative possibilities of reappropriating, reassembling, and mutating images. Approaching the image as raw material, participants will consider how collage, remix, and transformation can release images from their intended functions and generate new narratives, temporalities, and critical perspectives.

Across the weekend, participants will work through collage not simply as a visual technique, but as a way of thinking: bringing historical documents, institutional archives, family photographs, fragmented media, and the scraps of everyday visual culture into unexpected collision. Through screenings, discussion, and experimentation, the workshop will ask what becomes possible when images are displaced and recast, and how the visual culture of surveillance

 

Kelly Sears
Workshop Lead

Alongside Sears, an all-star cast of artists working across found footage, photography, and appropriation will share their distinctive approaches to reworking existing images: Bill Morrison will delve into his recent work with surveillance materials; Anti-Banality Union will explore how composite imagery can reframe the assumptions of mainstream media; and acclaimed photographer Keisha Scarville will share her iterative approach to reinterpretation and artistic reappropriation.

Grab the Early Bird Registration by Oct 16, and get $55 off!

Early Bird Registration

 

NEWS

----------------------------------------

Working on a documentary project? Apply to UnionDocs’ Fiscal Sponsorship Program to access grant opportunities, accept tax-deductible donations, and receive nonprofit administrative support as you bring your work to life!

Applications for the Fondazione Prada Film Fund are open! Deadlines: August 6, September 10, November 20.

 

THIS WEEK ON THE UNDO MEMBERSHIP

----------------------------------------

Viewfinder by Crystal Z Campbell

Filmed entirely in a Swedish spa town, Viewfinder takes cues from political gestures and decisive movements to explore belonging, allyship, and monuments. Through a careful attention to framing and motion, Campbell considers how bodies, symbols, and landscapes are read — and misread — within shared civic space.

This work is presented alongside a short video essay drawing from The Site of Whispers, our accompanying publication edited by Ashon Crawley. These reflections — from Erica N. Cardwell, Jheanelle Brown, and Sarah Jane Cervenak — expand upon Campbell’s practice, attuned to what lingers in gesture, sound, and the spaces between.

If this work resonates, we invite you to explore the full fellowship feature — The Site of Whispers. It gathers five films and a constellation of writing tracing Campbell’s ongoing engagement with land, body, sound, and the fragile architectures of memory.

Tune In

 

Member Login

Start your Free Trial

UnionDocs (UNDO) is a Center for Documentary Art that generates and shares big ideas. We bring together a diverse community of experimental media-makers, dedicated journalists, critical thinkers, and local partners on a search for urgent expressions of the human experience, practical perspectives on the world today, and compelling visions for the future.

UnionDocs is grateful for support from

UnionDocs
Center for Documentary Art

Office, Event Space & Residency at
UnionDocs
352 Onderdonk Ave
Ridgewood, NY 11385

MAP

Leave mailing list / Add us to your address book
www.uniondocs.org