UID:559 | 2026-09-24 | "Melissa Chiu, Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York" <guggenheim@emails.guggenheim.org> | My reflections on Taryn Simon’s exhibition

Melissa Chiu on discovery, ambition, and her first exhibition as Director.

From the Director
Melissa Chiu
 
September 2026

 

 

Dear Friends,

As I reflect on my first weeks as the Director of the Guggenheim Museum in New York, I want to introduce myself and share a bit about our fall season. I couldn’t be more excited to join the museum at this moment and have Taryn Simon | Father Country I Do Love You as my first exhibition.

To lead a museum in one of the most important cultural centers of the world, and particularly a museum that has pioneered the way in artistic experimentation—is a great privilege; and one I am honored to hold. Just last week we celebrated the opening of a show that encapsulates this innovative spirit.

Joining just three weeks ago, I was astonished at the depths of a project like Taryn Simon | Father Country I Do Love You. Simon was offered the ultimate invitation to create, and she has stepped up to that call with ambition that knows no bounds. Filling the entire rotunda, the presentation brings together hundreds of never-before-seen photographs, text, videos, and sculptures into a singular interactive installation, tracing the real life of one unnamed federal agent through 42 artworks or “chapters.”

The immense project is a labyrinth of stories in which Simon uncovers the ripple effects of her protagonist’s actions and inactions. The world she’s assembled deserves close looking, and every time you walk through it, you’ll discover something new in the monumental new body of work.

There are several special ways to experience the exhibition. Not to be missed are daily activations of the exhibition’s interactive artworks, including Simon’s sculpture Kleroterion (2024)—a reimagined election machine based on a device from ancient Greece; the artist’s book that reproduces all images and texts from the project creating an exact replica of the exhibition and novel of sorts; and a unique audio guide that narrates the exhibition. Hosted on Bloomberg Connects, the guide features the voices of Jodie Foster and an AI-generated voice clone of the artist’s father, creating an experience unlike any other.  
 
On October 15, join us to experience the iconic spiral after dark during our beloved Late Shift program. Mark your calendars for November 6, when the Guggenheim and The New York Review of Books will co-present a special program featuring a cast of writers and cultural figures reading texts by Simon from Father Country I Do Love You. Plus, on Monday, September 28 members will have the chance to see the show in a special after hours setting as part of our Member Mondays series and enjoy a Rotunda Dance Party, presented in partnership with Works & Process, with SCUFF leading queer country dancing.

I hope you will plan your visit and come step into the whirlwind of stories that Simon has assembled. I hope to see you at the museum soon.

Melissa Chiu
Director
Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York
 
 

The Guggenheim gratefully acknowledges its Global Partners. 

Learn more about our exhibitions and sponsors: Taryn Simon | Father Country I Do Love You.

To learn more about our education funders, visit guggenheim.org/education.

Photo: BFA

 

View in browser
Update profile
Privacy policy Guggenheim New York
1071 Fifth Ave at 89th St
New York, NY, 10128 United States
212 423 3500
guggenheim.org