UID:566 | 2026-09-24 | "Japan Society" <info@japansociety.org> | It’s not too late to join us for Gen’ichirō Inokuma’s NYC Salon Symposium🎨

Don't miss rare insights from leading scholars on Inokuma’s transformative New York era.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

View with images

Japan Society will present a symposium in conjunction with Gen’ichirō Inokuma’s NYC Salon, on view from October 6, 2026 through January 10, 2027. Supported by the Robert Rauschenberg Foundation, the symposium brings together curators and scholars from the United States and Japan to examine the career of Japanese modern artist Gen’ichirō Inokuma (1902–1993), with particular attention to the transformative twenty years he spent in New York City from 1955 to 1975.

RSVP for free→

 

 

GALLERY HOURS

Tuesdays–Fridays: 11 am–5 pm
Saturdays & Sundays: noon–6 pm
Free First Fridays: 5–7 pm*
Closed on major holidays

TICKETS

$20 Nonmembers

$15 Students and Seniors

Admission is always free for Japan Society members, patrons with disabilities, and an accompanying Personal Care Assistant.  

*October 9, 2026; November 6, 2026; December 4, 2026, January 8, 2027

Become a Japan Society member for unlimited free gallery admission all year—for you and a guest! Join today→

 

The exhibition symposium Inokuma Genichiro’s NYC Salon is supported by the Robert Rauschenberg Foundation.

Gen’ichirō Inokuma’s NYC Salon is organized and curated by Michele Bambling, Senior Director, Japan Society Gallery; with Kanako Furuno, Senior Curator, Marugame Genichiro-Inokuma Museum of Contemporary Art (MIMOCA) and Madoka Matsumura, Senior Curator, MIMOCA.

Gen’ichirō Inokuma’s NYC Salon is supported by George and Hillary Hirose. Special thanks to Yoko and Goro Osawa, and Naomi Kuromiya for contributing to the exhibition research.

The exhibition catalog is made possible with support from the Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern Art Studies.

Exhibitions and Arts & Culture Lecture Programs at Japan Society are made possible, in part, by Mikimoto (America) Co., Ltd.; Sompo Holdings, Inc.; the Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Endowment Fund; the Mary Griggs Burke Endowment Fund established by the Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary Griggs Burke Foundation; The Masako Mera and Koichi Mera, PhD Fund for Education and the Arts; Shin and Maho Abe; Carlo Bolivar; Barbara Bertozzi Castelli; Vincent Covello and Carol Mandel; Peggy Danziger; Harry Dreizen; Cindy Gim; David Libertson; Marc Mailhot; Marge Neuwirth; Jun Makihara and Megumi Oka; Victoria Melendez; Joan B. Mirviss; Alice North; Hiroko Onoyama; Pamela Perlman; Thierry Porté and Yasko Tashiro; Masako Shinn; Elizabeth Simon; Michael Sonnenfeldt; Ayako Weissman; Japan Society Gallery Council; and other Gallery supporters.

Transportation assistance is provided by Japan Airlines, the official Japanese airline sponsor for Japan Society Gallery exhibitions.

Japan Society’s arts and culture programs are made possible by the New York State Council on the Arts, with the support of the Office of the Governor and the New York State Legislature; in part by public funds from the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs in partnership with the City Council; and by the Hotsuki Family Foundation.

Additional support is provided by Sharp Imaging & Information Company of America and a grant from The Venable Foundation.

Japan Society’s 120th anniversary initiatives and related programs are generously supported by Champion Sponsor, MUFG Bank, Ltd.; Advocate Sponsors, Mizuho Americas and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation; and Friend Sponsors, Mitsubishi Corporation (Americas), Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., and Sumitomo Corporation of Americas.

Banner Image:

Gen’ichirō Inokuma

Inokuma working in his studio at 115 East 95th Street

Black and white photograph

Marugame Genichiro-Inokuma Museum of Contemporary Art (MIMOCA)

Amy Hau’s Portrait Credit © Don Stahl

Portrait: The Inokumas in the window of their apartment at 115 East 95th Street, 1960. Color photograph; 35mm film. Courtesy of Marugame Genichiro-Inokuma Museum of Contemporary Art (MIMOCA).

Japan Society
333 East 47th Street

New York, NY 10017

Join | Support | Calendar | Location & Hours | Privacy Policy