UID:567 | 2026-09-25 | "e-flux Agenda" <art-agenda@mailer.e-flux.com> | Artissima 2026: galleries of the 33rd edition

Artissima, International Fair of Contemporary Art in Turin, the only fair in Italy with an exclusive…

  

Galleries of the 33rd edition

Artissima

Artissima 2025. © Photo: Perottino-Piva-Castellano-Bergadano.

October 30–November 1, 2026

The Oval
Turin,
Italy

artissima.art
Instagram

Artissima, International Fair of Contemporary Art in Turin, the only fair in Italy with an exclusive focus on contemporary art, presents its 33rd edition: an event that marks the fifth year of Luigi Fassi's directorship, and that invites visitors to view past editions as a progressive and coherent curatorial journey.

From Friday October 30 to Sunday November 1, 2026 the spaces of the Oval Torino will host the four flagship sections of the fair—Main Section, New Entries, Monologue/Dialogue and Art Editions—and the three curated sections—Present Future, Back to the Future and Disegni.

In 2026 Artissima welcomes 183 participating Italian and international galleries, including 66 monographic projects. The exhibition offering is distinguished by the galleries' ability to present groundbreaking and experimental projects featuring both emerging talents and established artists. This approach perfectly mirrors the fair's identity and its forward-looking focus on innovative trends, reinforcing its status as a vibrant and accelerated hub for engaging with contemporary art in all its forms, as highlighted by this year's theme, Fancy: A Flexible Acrobatic Body.

The participating galleries come from 35 countries across four continents.

The international scope of Artissima 2026 is reflected in the strong presence of galleries from Asia and from South and Central America, as well as South Africa and the United States. Participants also include galleries from Eastern Europe, France, Germany, Portugal, the United Kingdom, Spain, and Switzerland.

Thirty-seven galleries are exhibiting at the fair for the first time this year.

Once again, several of the most prominent galleries on the Italian and international scene have chosen Artissima, including: Alfonso Artiaco, ChertLüdde, Continua, Raffaella Cortese, Thomas Dane, Cristina Guerra, Sylvia Kouvali, Franco Noero, Öktem Aykut, P420, Gregor Podnar, Lia Rumma, Rossi & Rossi, Sies + Höke, Tucci Russo, Studio Trisorio, Vistamare, Wentrup, and ZERO…. Galleries returning to the fair include: Ex Elettrofonica, Tiziana Di Caro, Annet Gelink, Herald St, Side 2, Janda, Management, Meessen, Federica Schiavo, SMAC, and many more.

There is also a strong presence of galleries recognised for their commitment to scouting and research, including, among others: Alice Amati, Alma Pearl, ATM, Matèria, MATTA, TINA, Vohm, and zazà.

The New Entries section, dedicated to emerging galleries founded less than five years ago and participating for the first time, will host 17 galleries from three continents.

Discover here the complete list of the 2026 exhibitors!

Artissima confirms the curatorial team behind its three curated sections. Léon Kruijswijk (Performance Curator at Mudam, Luxembourg) and Joel Valabrega (Independent Curator based in Porto and Milan) will curate Present Future, the section devoted to emerging talents and monographic projects spotlighting new trends in the international art scene. Also returning are Heike Munder (Director, Art and Design School F+F, Zurich and Honorary Director, Simose Art Museum, Otake Hiroshima) and Jacopo Crivelli Visconti (Independent Curator based in São Paulo) who will lead Back to the Future, the curated section dedicated to monographic projects by major pioneers of contemporary art, whose work has played a key role in art history. For Disegni, the only section in an Italian fair dedicated to the medium of drawing, Irina Zucca Alessandrelli (Curator of the Collezione Ramo, Milan) returns as curator for the fifth year.

Fondazione Arte CRT confirms its Acquisition Fund in support of the collections of GAM—Galleria Civica d'Arte Moderna di Torino and Castello di Rivoli Museo d'Arte Contemporanea, reaching a total of 300,000 euros.

Artissima reaffirms its prestigious and wide-ranging awards program, with two new appointments for this edition: Seletti Wonder Award at its first edition; the illy Present Future Prize; Orlane per l'Arte Prize; Unwritten Archivorum Award, presented within the Monologue/Dialogue section and designed to support the development of an editorial project; Diana Bracco – Imprenditrici ad Arte Prize; Oelle Prize—Mediterraneo Antico; Pista 500 Prize; “ad occhi chiusi...” Prize; the upcoming edition confirms, for the fourth consecutive year, the Artissima New Entries Fund, a fund directly supported by the fair to provide financial support to three galleries in the New Entries section; Tosetti Value for photography Prize; Matteo Viglietta Award; Ettore e Ines Fico Prize.

We look forward to welcoming you to Turin this fall.

Contact

Facebook
X
Instagram

e-flux App

172 Classon Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11205
USA

This announcement was sent to wf.eventScout@gmail.com. You have received it because you have successfully subscribed to e-flux Agenda. You can revoke your consent and