UID:573 | 2026-09-25 | "MoMI Film" <info@movingimage.org> | Saturday: See Jim Henson's Oscar-nominated short TIME PIECE + get the behind-the-scenes story

Film Highlight, September 25, 2026

View this email in your browser

FILM HIGHLIGHT | September 24, 2026

Time Piece

This weekend you won’t want to miss all the fun at MoMI as we commemorate Jim Henson’s birthday (September 24, 1936) with an expanded celebration in honor of what would have been his 90th year. This weekend for all ages features a slew of special guests, screenings, puppet workshops, collectible swap meet, live music in the courtyard, and much more!

Among the events is a special 60th anniversary screening of Jim Henson’s Time Piece, an experimental nine-minute short film that tells what Henson called “the story of Everyman, frustrated by the typical tasks of a typical day.” As Henson described his filmmaking goals: “In Time Piece I was playing with a kind of flow of consciousness form of editing, where the image took you to another image, and there was no logic to it but your mind put it together.” Time Piece played for a year at the Paris Theatre in Manhattan, alongside the French art-house hit A Man and a Woman and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Short Film. It remains fresh today as both a time capsule of 1960s experimental filmmaking, and as a brilliantly conceived and edited example of Henson’s creativity.

Following the screening, Karen Falk, Archives Director of The Jim Henson Company and Vice President of The Jim Henson Legacy, will present an in-depth look of how the film was produced, sharing materials from Jim Henson’s original production files and photography.  Get tickets now for this special event tomorrow, Saturday September 26, at noon!

Get tickets

Learn more about the Museum's celebration of Jim Henson's 90th birthday right here.

MoMI members receive $7 tickets for regular screenings, free tickets to many films each month (including this one!), and 25% off special screening tickets; plus unlimited free gallery admission. Become a member today!

NOW SHOWING

Friday, September 25
2:30 p.m. The Muppet Show: The Very Best Episodes – drop in marathon screening (Henson weekend)
7:00 p.m. Dead Ringers (Overexposed Through and Through)

Saturday, September 26
12:00 p.m. 60 Years of Jim Henson’s Time Piece (Jim Henson's World)
1:30 p.m. The Muppet Show 50 Greatest Moments (Jim Henson's World)
4:00 p.m. The Muppet Show: The Very Best Episodes – drop in marathon screening (Henson weekend)
6:30 p.m. The Birds (Practical Magic)

Sunday, September 27
11:30 a.m. The Muppet Show: 50 Greatest Moments (Jim Henson's World)
4:30 p.m. The Muppet Show: The Very Best Episodes – drop in marathon screening (Henson weekend)

Next week: Handcrafted Horrors opens with The Creature from the Black Lagoon in 3-D and Carnival of Souls; David Lynch's Inland Empire; NYFF at MoMI kicks off. See schedule.

Ticket policy: Tickets are required for each individual screening and are available in advance online or in person at the door. Please note that paid Museum admission includes a ticket to a regular same-day screening (if one is offered that day; does not apply to special screenings). When you check in at the front desk simply request a film ticket. Tickets are distributed first-come, first-served.

Please consider making a donation to MoMI. Everything we do is possible because of the generosity of you and the entire MoMI community! 

Forward