UID:577 | 2026-09-25 | "Japan Society" <info@japansociety.org> | 🎬 First Look: GROTESQQQUE Screening Just Announced!

Don't miss these upcoming anime screenings—secure your seats now!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

View with images

GROTESQQQUE U.S. Premiere

With an Introduction by Atsushi Nishigori

Thursday, October 8, 7 pm

Presented in partnership with Aniplex and CloverWorks, be among the first to see the captivating original anime anthology film from director Atsushi Nishigori (DARLING in the FRANXX, EVANGELION: 3.0+1.0 THRICE UPON A TIME) and studio CloverWorks (Spy x Family).

Blending three stories featuring aliens, gyarus, and vampires with a powerful soundtrack from 35 artists across technopop, rock, rap, and classical, GROTESQQQUE is an explosive fusion of pop imagery and sound. Starring Kana Ichinose, Gen Hoshino, Sara Minami, and members of Nogizaka46.

Get Tickets→

 

JUST ANNOUNCED

Hirayasumi Anime Early Look at Episode 1

Wednesday, October 7, 7 pm

Preview the upcoming anime adaptation of Keigo Shinzo’s award-winning manga followed by a Q&A with the Composer and Producer!

Get Tickets→

Selected Shorts: A Portrait of an Author on Fire

Monday, October 26, 7 pm

Experience live readings by celebrated actors featuring fiction by visionary East Asian writers.

Get Tickets→

 

COMING UP SOON

Annual Sake Tasting

Member presale begins October 8 at 12 pm

Savor sake from a variety of breweries at this yearly sold-out celebration!

Save the Date→

 

GROTESQQQUE screening is presented by Japan Society in collaboration with CloverWorks and Aniplex of America.

Hirayasumi  is presented by Japan Society in collaboration with VIZ.

Support for cultural programs is provided by Anime NYC, the Sandy Heck Lecture Fund, Jean Fan Colson and Daniel Colson, Seth A. Coren, and Faith L. Taylor.

Film programs are generously supported by Anime NYC and ORIX Corporation USA. Endowment support is provided by the Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Endowment Fund and The John and Miyoko Davey Endowment Fund. Additional season support is provided by Jono Abrams and Elizabeth Linn, Ayumi Arafune, Darin Arita and Kanako Arita, Mike Audet, Shizuka Bernstein, Gabriel Bianconi, Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Catanzaro, The Globus Family, Satoshi Harris-Koizumi, Kazumi Hayama, George and Hillary Hirose, Timothy Hower, Eriko Ishikawa, Akiko Koide and Shohei Koide, Marc Mailhot, Kurt Nickels, David Toberisky, Joseph Rajaratnam and Dharshini Iolanthe Sivakumaran, the Japan Society Film Council, and other Film supporters.

Transportation assistance is provided by Japan Airlines, the official Japanese airline sponsor of Japan Society Film Program. Housing assistance is provided by the Prince Kitano New York, the official hotel sponsor of Japan Society Film Program.

Japan Society’s 4K Projector is made possible through the generosity of the following donors: Crunchyroll, Mike Audet, The Globus Family, Darin Arita, Carlo Bolivar, Gregory Corsico IHO RJ Hogan, Vincent Covello and Carol Mandel, Laurel Gonsalves, George and Hillary Hirose, Ida Law, Anne-Marie Peeters, and Joseph Rajaratnam and Dharshini Iolanthe Sivakumaran, Kimberly A. Woodward, and the New York State Council on the Arts with the support of the Office of the Governor and the New York State Legislature.

Japan Society’s arts and culture programs are made possible by the New York State Council on the Arts, with the support of the Office of the Governor and the New York State Legislature; in part by public funds from the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs in partnership with the City Council; and by the Hotsuki Family Foundation.

Additional support is provided by Sharp Imaging & Information Company of America and a grant from The Venable Foundation.

Japan Society's 120th anniversary initiatives and related programs are generously supported by Champion Sponsor, MUFG Bank, Ltd.; Advocate Sponsors, Mizuho Americas and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation; and Friend Sponsors, Mitsubishi Corporation (Americas), Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., and Sumitomo Corporation of Americas.

GROTESQQQUE © Atsushi Nishigori, CloverWorks/Project GTQ

Selected Shorts © Stefanie Candelario

Hirayasumi © Keigo Shinzo/Shogakukan/Hirayasumi Project
Annual Sake Fesitval © Stefanie Candelario

Japan Society
333 East 47th Street

New York, NY 10017

Join | Support | Calendar | Location & Hours | Privacy Policy