UID:579 | 2026-09-25 | "Rockaway Film Festival" <hello@rockawayfilmfestival.org> | Postponed: The Adventures of Prince Achmed + Shadow Puppet Show rescheduled to October 3

Join us next weekend for a live-scored screening of this sublime animated fairytale on its 100th anniversary with an original shadow puppet show.

Postponed due to weather!

Live Score: The Adventures of Prince Achmed + Shadow Puppet Show
New date! Saturday, October 3 at 7:00 pm
Arverne Cinema Outside

We present Lotte Reiniger’s sublime animated fairytale on its 100-year anniversary. Considered by many to be the earliest feature-length animation, it predates Disney by a decade, and is composed of intricate hand-cut figures and landscapes lit from behind to create dazzling silhouettes. Drawing on tales from One Thousand and One Nights, the film follows Prince Achmed and his magical flying horse through a series of wondrous adventures. 

Screening with live, original accompaniment by Order of the Illusive. Puppet duo Broken Toys will open the film with a new shadow play drawing on the history of Dead Horse Bay.
 

Tickets

 

Coming up:

Beach Sessions Presents: Dance + Cinema
Friday, October 2 at 8:00 pm
Arverne Cinema Inside

Guest-curated by New York–based choreographer and artist Alexa West, this free screening brings together cinematic dance scenes that have shaped her work, including Amusement, her latest commission for Beach Sessions, performed earlier this month.

Introduced by Alexa West. Free!
 

Tickets

 

Local Filmmakers' Showcase
Saturday, October 10 at 5:00 pm
Arverne Cinema Inside

Our annual celebration of new work by Rockaway-based filmmakers featuring Kaia Abraham, Artie Brennan, Jakob Daschek, Kiernan Richard Doyle, Kevin Gregory, Emma Hastil, Katherine Kordaris, Lazarus, Phil Rodriguez, Keith Roenke, Sahar Sedaghat, Allison Sheriff, and Barrett Lesly Shuler.

Post-screening conversation with filmmakers. Free!
 

Tickets

Arverne Cinema 72-02 Gouverneur Ave, Arverne, NY 11692
rockawayfilmfestival.org