UID:580 | 2026-09-25 | "Onassis ONX" <contact@onx.studio> | What Remains opens tonight, from 6-8PM! 🪨

Bringing together seven artists from Sep 25 - Oct 4 at Onassis ONX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

View this email in your browser

Film still courtesy of Alejandro Moreno Jashés

EXHIBITION DETAILS:

Onassis ONX, 390 Broadway, New York, NY

Public Hours from Sep 25 - Oct 4, 1-7 PM

Opening Reception on Sep 25, 6-8PM

MORE INFORMATION

What Remains is officially open until Oct 4! And tonight, from 6-8PM, we’re celebrating our new exhibition and the seven artists behind it. Please RSVP here for our opening reception!

The inaugural ONX.Exhibition.NY.2026 presents artists from the ONX community whose creative practices move fluidly between physical and digital worlds. In their work, technology appears not as a neutral tool, but as a material and cultural force that translates, distorts, and reanimates the worlds it encounters.

On view from September 25 to October 4, 2026, at Onassis ONX in New York, the exhibition features the U.S. debut of Ugo Arsac’s “Katabasis,” winner of the Best Immersive Work Award at the 2026 Cannes Film Festival, alongside newly commissioned and recent works by Chloe Alexandra Thompson, Margarita Athanasiou, Alejandro Moreno Jashés, Jiabao Li, Huntrezz Janos, and Ashley Zelinskie.

Abandoned theaters are given a speculative digital afterlife. A sculpture attempts to translate itself into code. Ice forms, melts, and becomes language. Across “What Remains,” technology appears not as a neutral tool, but as a material and cultural force that translates, distorts, and reanimates the worlds it encounters. Such an elusive force can both bring us together and set us apart, connecting and separating in equal measure.

Ugo Arsac, Katabasis, photo by Ryan Muir

UGO ARSAC

KATABASIS

Making its U.S. debut after winning Best Immersive Work at the 2026 Cannes Film Festival, Katabasis guides you into the city’s hidden veins – spaces known by people rarely seen: unhoused souls, unseen laborers, abyssal poets, seekers of the invisible. Ugo Arsac amplifies their raw, intimate voices, creating an immersive journey where poetic evocation and documentary truth intertwine – a story of escape, longing, and the urgent necessity to exist.

The presentation of this work in New York is supported by Villa Albertine’s 2026 French Immersion Exhibition Grant.

Margarita Athanasiou, A brief introduction to Alchemy, photo by Ryan Muir

MARGARITA ATHANASIOU

A BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO ALCHEMY

A brief introduction to Alchemy is a feature-length film essay that explores the connections between alchemical history, Jungian psychoanalysis, and the rise of modern fascism. Presented as a stream-of-consciousness narrative, the exhibition's first two chapters use an internet-informed visual language of collage and animation displayed in a vertical format to mimic a smartphone or page of a book. Through this hyperlink style presentation, rapidly chaining facts make links between ancient folklore, occult fascism, and modern technofeudalism.

Jiabao Li, Cryoscape, photo by Ryan Muir

JIABAO LI

CRYOSCAPE

Developed during Jiabao Li’s Arctic Circle residency in Svalbard, Cryoscape is a 3D ice printer that transforms water into shifting landscapes and microscopic forms. A camera and AI translate melting ice into haiku. Shaped by each site’s climate, the work links transformation, computation, and environmental cost in a self-destroying machine.

Huntrezz Janos, Dis-ARMOUR-Machine, photo by Ryan Muir

HUNTREZZ JANOS

DIS-ARMOUR-MACHINE

Dis-ARMOUR-Machine is a wearable XR artwork centered on solar-fabricated biomechanical armor. Through 3D-printed sculpture, poetry, AR, game-space, posters, and digital archives, it transforms ideas of protection from militarized defense into an interface for survival, abolitionist imagination, ecological technology, public resistance, and speculation.

Alejandro Moreno Jashés, film still from Salón De Actos, photo by Ryan Muir

ALEJANDRO MORENO JASHÉS

SALÓN DE ACTOS - ACT I: THE BENEFITS OF LIME

Salón de Actos, Act I: The Benefits of Lime transforms the abandoned Windsor Theatre in Chile’s Atacama Desert into a living archive. Moving between live-action footage, digital reconstruction, and photogrammetry, the work combines fables, voices, and desert mythologies to explore memory, ruin, fiction, and technological preservation across time and media.

Chloe Alexandra Thompson, Untitling (field relations), photo by Ryan Muir

CHLOE ALEXANDRA THOMPSON

UNTITLING (FIELD RELATIONS)  

Untitling (field relations) begins with a simple proposition: sound is our first sense. Through field recordings, voice transformed through playback, synthesis, and responsive spatial media, the installation invites listening as a practice of reciprocity. As sound, light, and image continually reorganize through collective presence, listening becomes a way of sensing relation, memory, and place beyond language—a practice of tending, remembrance, and return.

Ashley Zelinskie, Reverse Abstraction, photo by Ryan Muir

ASHLEY ZELINSKIE

REVERSE ABSTRACTION

This ongoing series of sculptures examines the different languages through which humans and computers perceive objects. Physical sculptures anchored along a long wall are covered in hexadecimal and binary code—allowing a computer to read that code and “see” the object that humans see in physical space. At the far end, the generative piece runs the recursion loop in real time: scanning, encoding, embedding, re-scanning, endlessly. Each iteration drifts further from the original.

 

Copyright (C) 2026 Onassis Foundation USA. All rights reserved.