UID:581 | 2026-09-25 | "Harry Poster" <abrons@henrystreet.org> | Please make your Back-to-School gift today and support arts education scholarships at Abrons!

Help us by making a donation this fall season
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

View this email in your browser

Dear Abrons Community Member,

Fall semester education programming launched last week, and I want to take a moment to feature some of our most accomplished artists, Caleb and Carmelo, who are young learners at the Arts Center.

Caleb and Carmelo have been taking classes at the center for three years and they show up every Saturday to cultivate new skills as well as maintain their own artistic endeavors in digital music production, salsa, and breakdancing.  Zach Cruz, an LES native and Abrons Alum, teaches three levels of breaking throughout the semester and has placed both Caleb and Carmelo in the advanced, invite-only, Breaking Crew, that performs at our community events.

Because of your support of Abrons Arts Center, Caleb and Carmelo have access to free and affordable classes to explore new art forms and artistic expression through movement and music. With Saturday classes in full swing, will you make a gift to transform arts access for young learners on the Lower East Side? Your donation will provide scholarships for artists like Caleb and Carmelo to cultivate their talents at Abrons!

At a time when school arts programs are stretched thin and young people urgently need creative outlets to improve their social and emotional wellbeing, you can help Lower East Siders  learn, grow and thrive. 

Photos by Victoria Reshetnikov, Andrew Federman

Please make your Back-to-School gift today and support arts education scholarships at Abrons!

With gratitude and inspiration,

Harry Poster

Interim VP of Visual & Performing Arts, Henry Street Settlement

Interim Director, Abrons Arts Center  
Producing Director, Abrons Arts Center

Watch More of Caleb & Carmelo Here

Support Abrons

 

Abrons Arts Center is the home for artistic expression at Henry Street Settlement. It was founded in 1975 as the Arts for Living Center, adjacent to the historic Neighborhood Playhouse—an anchor of arts on the Lower East Side since 1915. Abrons Arts Center is the only comprehensive arts and culture center in New York City embedded within a social services agency.

Abrons Arts Center builds a community where artists, learners, and audiences explore creative possibilities. Rooted in the immigrant and working-class history of our Lower East Side neighborhood, we offer free and affordable exhibitions, performances, classes, residencies, and space access.

Abrons Arts Center
466 Grand Street, New York, NY 10002
(212) 598-0400, abrons@henrystreet.org