UID:584 | 2026-09-26 | "Printed Matter" <news@printedmatter.org> | The NY Art Book Fair is Underway

Join us for signings, Fair editions, and noteworthy publications at the Printed Matter table
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

View this email in your browser

THE NY ART BOOK FAIR IS UNDERWAY

The NY Art Book Fair is in full swing at MoMA PS1. Thursday night’s opening drew an amazing crowd, while Friday brought signings with Derrick Adams, Cheyce, and Kristen Mueller of Some Other Books. Join us today, Saturday, September 26, for more artist signings, special Fair editions, and noteworthy publications at the Printed Matter table, located at Booth B. Rain or shine, the NY Art Book Fair will remain open.

 

AT THE FAIR TODAY

Torbjørn Rødland will sign Dim Revelations, Joseph Rovegno will sign his two artists’ books, 030426 and 0526, and Tom Sachs will sign his latest publication, Bricolage Magazine #7, as well as a selection of out of print materials from his archive. Beyond the signings, the day includes conversations in The Classroom and performances in the courtyard. Learn more Saturday’s programming.

Dim Revelations

Book Signing with Torbjørn Rødland

Saturday, September 26th, 12PM

Printed Matter, Inc. (Booth B) at MoMA PS1

030426 / 0526

Book signing with Joseph Rovegno

Saturday, September 26th, 3PM

Printed Matter, Inc. (Booth B) at MoMA PS1

Bricolage Magazine #7

Zine signing with Tom Sachs

Saturday, September 26, 5PM

Printed Matter, Inc. (Booth B) at MoMA PS1

 

RICHARD PRINCE MATERIALS AT OUR TABLE

Richard Prince: Cowboy brings together decades of Prince’s work with the cowboy, an image he drew from American advertising and has returned to throughout his career. This book places his artworks alongside related ephemera, tracing the figure’s movement from advertising into Prince’s work.

We also have Truth Versus Lies, a memoir by Ted Kaczynski, also known as the Unabomber. In it, Kaczynski gives his account of his life and responds to how he was portrayed publicly. Richard Prince acquired the memoir and published it through his imprint, Fulton Ryder.

 

SPECIAL EDITIONS & SIGNED BOOKS

This year marks twenty years since the first NY Art Book Fair. A Josh Smith print made for that inaugural Fair in 2006 is available at our table, located at Booth B. You’ll also find a special ticket edition made for this year’s Fair by Sara Yukiko, the artist behind XO1, along with signed copies of Arthur Jafa’s I Am Tony.

Purchase Tickets for the NY Art Book Fair Here

 

Browse our catalog   ●   Become a member   ●   Make a donation

Printed Matter, Inc.
Printed Matter, Inc. is an independent 501(c)3 non-profit organization founded in 1976 by artists and art workers with the mission to foster the appreciation, dissemination, and understanding of artists’ books and other artists’ publications.

Printed Matter, Inc.

231 11th Avenue

New York, NY 10001

www.printedmatter.org

www.pmabf.org

T: 212 925 0325

Printed Matter’s bookstore is wheelchair accessible.