UID:595 | 2026-09-28 | "The New York Academy of Sciences" <nyas@nyas.org> | Academy eNews: September 2026

View this email in your browser

September 2026

Three New Events to Put on Your 2027 Calendar

Registration is now open for three upcoming Academy programs exploring some of the most rapidly evolving areas of biomedical research.

Advancing the Dark Proteome Towards Clinical Impact
What can the proteins we know least about teach us about disease? Explore how the “dark proteome” is opening new avenues for understanding and treating cancer, autoimmune disease, and genetic and metabolic disorders.
 

Beyond BMI: The Next Generation of Weight Loss Therapeutics
The future of obesity treatment may go beyond the number on the scale. Experts will examine adipose biology, muscle preservation, body composition, and cardiometabolic health in the development of next-generation therapies.
 

Reimagining Neurodegeneration Treatments
What new insights could transform treatment for neurodegenerative disease? Researchers will explore the links between proteinopathy, neuroimmune signaling, and neuronal degeneration to identify new therapeutic targets and biomarkers. Explore the programs and register today.
 

Learn more

October 21, 2026
In-person registration sold out!
FUTURE FORUM: Science for Society

October 29, 2026
Chemical Biology: Peptide and Protein Design

November 11, 2026
Mitochondrial Health and Healthspan: Brain Metabolism and Bioenergetics

November 18, 2026
The 208th Annual Meeting of The New York Academy of Sciences

February 25, 2027
Advancing the Dark Proteome Towards Clinical Impact

March 16 – 17, 2027
Vaccines and Immune Therapies for Chronic Diseases

March 24, 2027
Cancer Metabolism and Signaling in the Tumor Microenvironment

April 1, 2027
Neuroimmunology and Autoimmunity: From Mechanisms to Novel Therapeutics

May 5, 2027
Beyond BMI: The Next Generation of Weight Loss Therapeutics

May 13, 2027
Trust in Science and Medicine

May 20, 2027
The Chemical Biology Discussion Group End-of-Year Symposium

June 10, 2027
Reimagining Neurodegeneration Treatments: Unraveling Proteinopathy and Neuroimmune Signaling

June 22 – 23, 2027
Frontiers in Cancer Immunotherapy

September 24 – October 13, 2026
Global STEM Career Pathways Series

September 30, 2026 – April 13, 2027
Academic Job Search Series

October 22, 2026 – April 29, 2027
Research Leadership Skill Series

November 5, 2026 – February 25, 2027
Publish and Fund Your Research Series

February 17 – June 8, 2027
PhD to Industry Job Search Series

Ready to Take Your Neuroscience Research Further?

Applications are open for the Leon Levy Scholarships in Neuroscience (LLSN), a three-year award supporting exceptional postdoctoral researchers conducting innovative neuroscience research across New York City.

Scholars receive enhanced research support, mentorship, professional development opportunities, and a competitive funding package, including a stipend at 125% of the NIH postdoctoral rate, up to $10,000 annually for care costs, and a $2,000 technology and travel allowance.

Applicants must conduct original neuroscience research at an accredited nonprofit academic institution in one of New York City’s five boroughs.

Applications close October 16, 2026.

Learn more

VIDEO: STEM Career Networking Night
The Academy kicked off the fall with an evening designed to build connections, exchange career insight, and explore the many ways scientists lead, communicate, and create impact across STEM.

Blavatnik Regional Awards for Young Scientists Announce 2026 Honorees
Recognized during the 17th Annual National Postdoc Appreciation Week, the Laureates include a physician scientist, a biochemist, and a materials scientist.

Finalists announced for the 2026 Blavatnik National Awards for Young Scientists
Eighteen early-career scientists have been named Finalists for the 2026 Blavatnik National Awards for Young Scientists, competing for three unrestricted $250,000 Laureate prizes.

Seven Thousand Cases Later, What It Takes to Turn the Tide on Ebola
Epidemiologist Dr. Henry Kyobe Bosa explains what it will take turn the tide on Ebola.

Three Public-Health Alerts, One Test for New York
Tularemia, cyclosporiasis and childhood vaccination present distinct challenges, but demand similar responses.

Connecting Scientists Across Disciplines at the 2026 Blavatnik Science Symposium
Each year the Symposium creates an opportunity for researchers to learn and network.

Shaping Science
Hosted by Academy President Nick Dirks, dive into topics at the forefront of scientific discovery from experts and other members of the Academy community.

#27 Josh Lerner on Venture Capital, Rethinking Innovation, and Shared Knowledge as a Competitive Strategy

Josh Lerner, a leading expert on venture capital, private equity, and innovation policy, is an economist and the Jacob H. Schiff Professor of Investment Banking at Harvard Business School.

Prof. Lerner’s work explores when markets succeed, when public policy fails, and what it really takes to build sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems. His newest book Rethinking Innovation with Jean Tirole, published earlier this year by Princeton University Press, explores how corporations have increasingly embraced the sharing of knowledge as a competitive strategy. He was also the recipient of the Academy’s inaugural Constellation Award earlier this year.

Previous episodes:

#26 Hans Peter Brondmo on Everyday Robots, Moving Toward an AI Society, and the Future of Work

#25 Peter Agre on Science as a Social Endeavor, How Scientists Can Succeed Where Politicians Fail, and the Current Climate for Science Diplomacy

#24 Thomas Levenson on the Impact of Storytelling in Science, the Three Major Scientific Revolutions of the Current Era, and the Case for Vaccinations in the Age of Misinformation

Visit the Merch Shop

Since 1817, The New York Academy of Sciences has been dedicated to advancing science and technology for the benefit of society.

We’re excited to offer a range of merchandise that allows you to support our mission while showcasing your commitment to science and innovation!
 

Shop Now

The New York Academy of Sciences is a 501c3 nonprofit dedicated to shaping the future of science and our work is made possible with philanthropic grants, donations, and membership support. Together, with your support, we will make meaningful progress in advancing the role of science and scientists across the globe.

Support the Academy