UID:606 | 2026-09-29 | "The Graduate Center" <gcevents@gc.cuny.edu> | Historian David Blight Gives the Annual Leon Levy Biography Lecture

For this year's Leon Levy Biography Lecture, we are pleased to welcome eminent historian David Blight to give a timely talk, “Biography and History in Authoritarian Times." Reserve today to join us in person or online!

Wednesday, October 7, 6:30 p.m.
David Blight: Biography and History in Authoritarian Times
Annual Leon Levy Biography Lecture
FREE; RESERVE NOW

David Blight, one of America’s leading historians of the Civil War and Reconstruction and author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning book Frederick Douglass: Prophet of Freedom gives this year’s Leon Levy Lecture on the craft of biography. In his talk, titled “Biography and History in Authoritarian Times," Blight intends to “address the current crisis … as well as dive into the details of biography as it has developed over recent decades.” Blight is the author or editor of a dozen books, including American Oracle: The Civil War in the Civil Rights Era; Race and Reunion: The Civil War in American Memory; and annotated editions of Douglass’ first two autobiographies. Besides the Pulitzer, he has been awarded the Bancroft Prize, the Abraham Lincoln Prize, and the Frederick Douglass Prize, among others. Blight is Sterling Professor of History and director of the Gilder Lehrman Center for the Study of Slavery, Resistance, and Abolition at Yale University.

Presented with the Leon Levy Center for Biography.

If you made reservations, we'll see you this week at a screening and a discussion with the filmmakers of this Oscar-winning short.

Wednesday, September 30, 6:30 p.m.
Oscar-Winning Short Film, Two People Exchanging Saliva:
Screening and Discussion
RESERVATIONS ARE FULL

In-person only event

As Natalie Musteata (Ph.D. ’19, Art History) worked on her dissertation, she and her partner spent their weekends writing movie scripts. The result was the satirical absurdist film Two People Exchanging Saliva, for which she and Alexandre Singh won an Academy Award for Best Live Action Short earlier this year. Set in a dystopian Paris where kissing is outlawed and transactions are completed through slaps to the face, the film follows Angine, a discontented woman whose fascination with a playful salesgirl draws suspicion from a jealous colleague. The 36-minute French-language short examines themes of repression, desire, and surveillance. At the Oscars, in a moment of breathless surprise, co-writer and co-director Musteata thanked the Academy “for supporting a film that is weird and that is queer and that is made by a majority of women.”

After a screening, Musteata joins in conversation with Singh, co-filmmaker and visual artist; Claire Bishop, presidential professor of Art History, CUNY Graduate Center; and Elizabeth Alsop, coordinator and faculty, Film and Media Cultures, CUNY Graduate Center.

Presented with the Certificate Program in Film and Media Cultures, the Ph.D. Program in Art History, and the Center for the Humanities.

Visit the 365 Cafe & Bar, located next to the lobby, for pre- and post-show refreshments. Enjoy cocktails, coffee beverages, small bites, snacks, and more. The 365 Bar will be open until 9 p.m. following Wednesday night's event. Show your mobile event ticket or QR code and receive $1 off any beverage.

View the Fall 2026 Schedule