UID:609 | 2026-09-29 | "MoMA" <newsletters@moma.org> | Join us at MoMA After Hours: Wanderlust

Live music, art making, and more!
Live music, art making, and more!

View with images

Join us on October 6 for MoMA After Hours: Wanderlust, a celebration of artists and their ideas through performances, exhibitions, collective art making, and live music.

For this special evening, the Museum will transform with artist-led experiences including a performance by L’Rain, a DJ set by Alexis De La Rosa with dancer Lysis, a performance by Camila Arroyo and Ricardo Daniel presented by TUMBAO, and a participatory workshop with Cassandra Mayela. Plus, enjoy drinks at our pop-up bars and after-hours access to the exhibitions Taking Back Our Space: Photographic Perspectives, The Surrealist Book: Tomorrow Lives in Mirrors, and more.

Advance ticket purchases are suggested. A limited number of walk-up tickets will be available.

Buy your tickets today

Never attended MoMA After Hours before? Here’s what to expect:

 * Artist-led experiences include a performance by L’Rain, a DJ set by Alexis De La Rosa with dancer Lysis, a performance by Camila Arroyo and Ricardo Daniel presented by TUMBAO, and a participatory workshop with Cassandra Mayela.

 * The exhibitions Full Disclosure: The Edge of Information Design, Nilima Sheikh: Fractured Skies, Taking Back Our Space: Photographic Perspectives, Architects of Liberation: Modernism in Western Africa, and The Surrealist Book: Tomorrow Lives in Mirrors will be open all evening.

 * A cashless pop-up bar in the main lobby and outside in the Sculpture Garden (weather permitting).

Visit the FAQ page for more information. Have questions about MoMA After Hours? Reach out to publicengagement@moma.org.

Major funding is provided by the Agnes Gund Education Endowment Fund for Public Programs, the Jeanne Thayer Young Scholars Fund, and the Annual Education Fund.

→  Plan your visit
→  Join
→  Buy tickets
→  Store

MoMA
11 West 53 Street
New York, NY 10019

MoMA PS1
22-25 Jackson Avenue
Long Island City, NY 11101

© 2026 The Museum of Modern Art

Image: Unarmed Media. Image © 2026 The Museum of Modern Art, New York