UID:610 | 2026-09-29 | "Wendy's Subway" <info@wendyssubway.com> | This month: Gerund Violence book launch, Editing Under Embargo, and Combat Breathing Study Sessions

October programs at Wendy's Subway.

BOOK LAUNCH: GERUND VIOLENCE
BY CLAUDIA PAGÈS RABAL
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 7PM

Gerund Violence by Claudia Pagès Rabal is out today! Join us next week for the New York release, co-organized with the Center for Experimental Lectures.

The evening takes shape as a dialogue between the author and the book’s co-editor, Zoey Lubitz. Bound by temporalities, violences, and choreographies, their conversation delves into the wandering and exacting texture of the publication, and reflects on the erotics, imaginaries, and anxieties of its times and places: after Covid, in the art institution, during the 2022 Gaza offensive, in a moment of global infrastructural dynamism, somewhere in a Europe freighted with history. Readings from the work’s collected librettos and narratives will be expanded through documentation, music, and visual material that perform Gerund Violence’s critical edge and multimodal intricacy.

Learn more and purchase a copy of the book here.

EDITING UNDER EMBARGO WITH MERATH
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10, 12–2PM

In 2003 the United States updated their trade embargoes with Iran, Cuba, Sudan, and Libya. That same year, an office of the Treasury ruled on a case in which an American publisher had attempted to edit a manuscript from Iran for publication, declaring that the publisher had provided a prohibited service, an offense carrying up to ten years in prison. To forbid editing, the state had to define what “editing” consisted of—reordering paragraphs or sentences, correcting syntax and grammar, replacing inappropriate words, providing image credits, ensuring pagination, and so forth—in so doing, providing the closest thing to an official codification of the craft.

Editing Under Embargo begins with a study of the embargo and its legal ruling, then turns to publications that crossed borders in spite of these adverse conditions. Restrictions are not always an end—they can also be a junction. If editing is the prohibited act, then it must travel undercover. Together we will examine these disguises and the myriad forms they take: notes, glossaries, errata slips, prefaces, and indexes. What information does editing under embargo carry that the body of the book cannot make apparent? What are the substitutions that let a sentence pass a censor or filter?

Over the course of the two hour program, merath will introduce their research on geopolitical histories of editing and embargo, and facilitate collective reading and discussion about different approaches to editorial practice when the direct route is closed. 

Free to attend. RSVP is recommended but not required.
More information here.

COMBAT BREATHING VOL. II: A SYMPOSIUM ON AESTHETICS AND POLITICS

Combat Breathing Vol. II: A Symposium on Aesthetics and Politics is a multisite platform spanning film screenings, critical discussions, and focused workshops that unfolds throughout October 2026. Responding to the current geopolitical juncture, it asks what roles artistic and intellectual production, circulation, and collective study might assume amid intensifying imperial violence and renewed global mobilizations. 

Each of the accompanying study sessions at Wendy’s Subway foregrounds the pedagogical function of aesthetic and discursive practice and the terms of these practices’ committed engagements with liberation struggles. 

After Hours Film School Study Session with Marwa Arsanios
Saturday, October 17, 12–2:30pm

Where can the militant image be found today? How does it emerge from current and historical struggles over land, and what role can images play within those struggles? This study session critically explores the politics of land and the ways it moves between foreground and background in militant filmmaking.

More information, and register here.

Study Session with Joy James
Tuesday, October 20, 6–8:30pm

What drives us into rebellion towards the unknown, and what keeps us unknowingly paralysed from rebelling? What visible and invisible, unpaid and underpaid labor feeds structures of captivity and abandonment? What becomes perceptible when we attend to those working in the shadows rather than only to those rendered hypervisible? In this study session, we will think collectively through categories developed in Joy James’s writing and political analysis, particularly the captive maternal, revolutionary love, rebellion, and the political “codes” through which societies and movements reproduce themselves.

More information, and register here.

Study session with Elizabeth Povinelli
Saturday, October 31, 12–2:30pm

How can we situate the present moment within a pervasive and ongoing structure of colonial catastrophe? What is the function of aesthetic practice under such violent planetary arrangements and their unique contemporary mutations? How might these questions unravel the enduring constitutive relationships between liberalism, settler colonialism, and capitalist extractivism? The concluding study session in this series will work from Elizabeth Povinelli’s scholarship in political economy, aesthetic philosophy, and Indigenous studies.

More information, and register here.
 

Images, in order of appearance: Claudia Pagès Rabal, Gerundi Circular, 2021. HD video, sound, color; 15 min; installation with LED screens and metal structure, 60 Ø 33.5 inches. Installation view, Museu d’Art Contemporani de Barcelona, Spain, 2021. Courtesy of the artist; Claudia Pagès Rabal, Gerund Violence (Wendy's Subway 2026), pp. 26-27; merath and the Libyan Design Archive; Black Power Salute at Liberation School. A teacher leads his students with the black power salute and slogans at a Black Panther liberation school. Courtesy Getty Images

Wendy’s Subway is a non-profit reading room, writing space, and independent publisher located in Bushwick, Brooklyn. We support emerging artists and writers in making experimental, urgent work and create alternative modes for learning and thinking in community. Wendy’s Subway is dedicated to encouraging creative, critical, and discursive engagement with arts and literature.

Our interdisciplinary programs offer free readings, talks, performances, and reading groups, as well as sliding-scale workshops and courses. Our multiseries publishing initiative includes works in translation, artists' books, poetic texts, and hybrid-genre works by time-based artists. Our non-circulating library holds a collection of over 5,000 titles, with a focus on international independent publishing, art and artists’ books, poetry, theory, and criticism.

To become a member, make book donations, or ask a question, email: info@wendyssubway.com.

For more information visit: wendyssubway.com.