UID:612 | 2026-09-30 | "ISSUE Project Room" <info@issueprojectroom.org> | Free November Programs

This November all programs are free with RSVP! Join 2026 AIR rocío sánchez, eden girma and Webb Crawford for their culminating commissions.

ISSUE's 2026 Fall Season was curated by Zev Greenfield. 

ANNOUNCING FREE NOVEMBER PROGRAMS
ISSUE'S 20TH AIR ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION CONTINUES

ISSUE Project Room celebrates the 20th Anniversary of its Artists-In-Residence (AIR) program throughout 2026 with performances by current residents and returning alumni. This anniversary season highlights AIRs whose work reflects the ongoing evolution of a much broader community of experimental artists who have helped shape ISSUE for over twenty years.

Developed throughout rocío sánchez’s 2026 residency, Caminos (11/7) provides a framework for musical ideas to emerge and unravel through improvisation, extended technique, and lighting design. For Caminos, sánchez is joined by friends and collaborators che ali (violin), Nava Dunkelman (percussion), and Henry Fraser (double bass), and extends sánchez’s year-long exploration of sound, place, identity, and memory. Rather than resolving these threads into a tidy conclusion, the work leaves them open: paths continuing to branch, and be traveled together.

ISSUE presents DREAMCLUB_RADI0 (11/13), an extra-dimensional radio program which takes place at 3:⚐ℹ️.?⛽️ A.M. every night. Threads of collective subconscious and buried experience emerge from a trawl through depths of hallucinatory space. On this special evening, join your hosts as they make a rare visit to the material plane at MITU580 — making use of human biology, electrical technology, air pressure waves, and audiovisual cognition processes, in order to follow traces of feelingnonsensememory and beam you some dreams. Body-vessel-spirits graciously provided by Eden Girma (2026 AIR) and isabel crespo pardo.

For their culminating residency commission, that passed away, this also may (11/19), luthier Webb Crawford and collaborator Emma Mistele will play the organistrum in a trio with Sam Boston performing on his self-built electric duochord with wheel. Organistrum are 11th-century ancestors of the modern hurdy-gurdy; a two-person organ, a heart pumping blood for multiples, a negotiation of physicality and of sound. Building the organistrum was made possible via the Community Giveback Membership at Makerspace NYC in Sunset Park.

MORERSVP

Coming Soon

Sergei Tcherepnin
Thursday, October 1st - 8pm
22 Boerum Pl. Brooklyn, NY 11201
$12 ISSUE Member Tickets

ISSUE Online: Kim Brandt & Isabella Thorpe-Woods
Tuesday, October 6th - 12pm ET
22 Boerum Pl. Brooklyn, NY 11201
Public release on ISSUE website

Liturgy
Saturday, October 24th - 8pm
22 Boerum Pl. Brooklyn, NY 11201
Free for ISSUE Members

STREAM ISSUE'S ARCHIVE

JOIN ISSUE DURING 2026!

ISSUE needs your help in supporting our community of experimental artists across New York City. Join as an ISSUE Member and receive free and discounted tickets, access to the last 10 tickets for all events when limited capacity remains, rare performance documentation, Member events, exclusive content, artist materials, and more.

Instagram

Facebook

LinkedIn

Soundcloud

ISSUE Project Room
22 Boerum Pl
Brooklyn, NY 11201
issueprojectroom.org