UID:618 | 2026-09-30 | "Japan Society" <info@japansociety.org> | Witness a whimsical menagerie of Japanese gods and beasts!

In two weeks, Maiko Kikuchi’s puppet theater world premiere spills from page to stage.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

View with images

Japan Society’s stage twists into the enchanting and eccentric playground of the Shinto gods

October 15–18, 2026

In Maiko Kikuchi’s latest work of puppet theater, Kojiki de Creation threads together an enchanting series of connected vignettes from the astonishing tales of the Kojiki, a chronicle starring a pantheon of rowdy Japanese gods shaping the world and the hapless critters who get swept up in the mess. Collaging together puppetry, narration, sculpture, masks, animation, music and live-feed video into a multimedia spectacle, Kikuchi carries the audience from the first stirrings of chaos through the parting of heaven and earth, a harrowing descent into the land of the dead and the sun goddess's retreat into the cave that plunges the world into darkness—all animated with a heavy dose of whimsy.

Grab tickets to this puppet theater world premiere before they’re gone!

Secure your seats→

 

There’s even more coming up soon!

From a choreographed collision of limbs, sounds, and symbols all taking aim at Japanese national identity to a music world premiere charged with a ritual intensity informed by Noh and Native American ceremony, our Fall 2026 TWO SOILS Series has much more in store.

🎟️ Save 15% off your total order when you purchase tickets to at least 3 programs in the series!

Explore the Series→

Under the Radar Returns with Yoroboshi at Japan Society

January 14–16, 2027

New York City’s premier festival of experimental theater is back—and we’re thrilled to join this year’s lineup with the North American Premiere of Yoroboshi, a gut-punching work of contemporary puppet theater by notorious Japanese playwright and provocateur Satoko Ichihara. Yoroboshi refashions the centuries-old Japanese legend of a blind boy abandoned by his father into a grotesquely comic tale of desire, illness and violence as embodied by a mannequin, a traffic dummy and a sex doll.

Secure your seats→

Under The Radar is New York City’s premier annual festival of experimental theater, featuring cutting-edge performances from around the world and across the U.S. The 21st edition of UTR will run from January 6-24, 2027, presenting over forty productions at various partner organizations across the city.

See the full lineup→

 

FROM OUR FRIENDS

Allegra

October 8–10, 2026

Commissioned and presented by New York Live Arts

Choreographer Benjamin Akio Kimitch conjures a fantasy Japanese American court dance where history presses on memory, and memory on imagination. Drawing on Bugaku, an ancient dance form that became central to postwar U.S.-Japan relations, histories converge through a Japanese American lens anchored by the aftermath of the camps in World War II.

Tickets & Details→

REICH90

October 14, 2026

REICH90 is the North American touring concert of the STEVE REICH PROJECT, conceived and produced by acclaimed percussionist Kuniko Kato in celebration of Steve Reich's 90th birthday. Long trusted by Reich himself, Kuniko has devoted more than three decades to performing and championing his music. Now, following sold-out performances across Japan, Kuniko brings together Japan's greatest emerging percussionists in a vibrant celebration of Reich’s legacy.

Buy Tickets→

Japan Society members enjoy early access to tickets, plus 20% off all performances for you and a guest.

Join Now →

Kojiki de Creation is supported by The Jim Henson Foundation and the Nomura Foundation. This performance was developed during an artist residency at the NowHere Studio Program (@nowhere-newyork).

2026-27 Performing Arts Season Support

Major support is generously provided by Doug and Teresa Peterson, Howard Gilman Foundation, and Jun Makihara and Megumi Oka. Endowment support is made possible by the Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Endowment Fund, John and Miyoko Davey Foundation, and through a leadership gift from the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation.

Program support is provided by The Fan Fox and Leslie R. Samuels Foundation, Hisamitsu America, Inc., and Mikimoto (America) Co., Ltd.

Additional support is provided by Julie Azuma, Patricia Hallstein and Axel Kramer, Laurent Hermouet, Paula S. Lawrence, Yaxin Liu, Raphael Meyer, Akiko Mikumo, Hiroko Onoyama, Pamela Perlman, Mark Russi, Richard Royce, Mr. and Mrs. Motoatsu Sakurai, Estate of Alan M. Suhonen, Carl F. Taeusch, Jeanette C. Takamura, Nancy and Joe Walker, and other Performing Arts supporters.

All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd. is the official airline of the Japan Society Performing Arts Program. Yamaha is the official piano provider of Japan Society.

 

Japan Society’s arts and culture programs are made possible by the New York State Council on the Arts, with the support of the Office of the Governor and the New York State Legislature. This program is supported, in part, by public funds from the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs, in partnership with the City Council, and by the Hotsuki Family Foundation. Additional support is provided by Sharp Imaging & Information Company of America and a grant from The Venable Foundation.

Japan Society’s 120th anniversary initiatives and related programs are generously supported by Champion Sponsor, MUFG Bank, Ltd.; Advocate Sponsors, Mizuho Americas and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation; and Friend Sponsors, Mitsubishi Corporation (Americas), Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc., and Sumitomo Corporation of Americas.

Program Support & Partners

The TWO SOILS Series is supported by Doug and Teresa Peterson.

Kojiki de Creation is supported by The Jim Henson Foundation and the Nomura Foundation. This performance was developed during an artist residency at the NowHere Studio Program (@nowhere-newyork)

The Age is Yours, My Liege! A Tale of Proto-Japan is supported by the Agency for Cultural Affairs, Government of Japan, Japan Arts Council, Arts Council Tokyo (Creation Grant), and The Harkness Foundation for Dance.

White Stones is supported by the National Endowment for the Arts, with additional support from Nancy and Joe Walker.

Yoroboshi is supported by the Agency for Cultural Affairs, Government of Japan, Japan Arts Council, Arts Council Tokyo (Creation Grant), and The Saison Foundation, with additional support from Cheryl Henson.

Contemporary Dance Festival: Japan + East Asia is supported by the Taipei Cultural Center in New York and The Harkness Foundation for Dance. The program is also supported by the Japan Creator Support Fund and assisted by Korea Dance Abroad.

Meet Kabuki - The Art of the Onnagata is supported by the John and Miyoko Davey Foundation. The program is also supported by the Japan Creator Support Fund.

Mansaku-no-Kai Kyogen Company is supported by Doug and Teresa Peterson. The program is also supported by the John and Miyoko Davey Foundation.

Photo credits: The Age is Yours, My Liege! A Tale of Proto-Japan © Toshie Kusamoto; Yoroboshi © Jörg Baumann; Allegra © Alexander Coggin

Japan Society
333 East 47th Street

New York, NY 10017

Join | Support | Calendar | Location & Hours | Privacy Policy