UID:621 | 2026-09-30 | "Anthology Film Archives" <info@anthologyfilmarchives.org> | This Week at AFA: Avatars of the Whore; Combat Breathing; Members Only: TWILIGHT ZONE on 16mm; SCREAMPLAY; and Lost & Found

Starting this Friday, scholar Ayanna Dozier joins Anthology again for “Avatars of the Whore,” a successor to her series presented last year, “Women, Workers, and Whores on Film.” Taken together, the films selected by Dozier – including Cheryl Dunye’s MOMMY IS COMING, Mira Nair’s KAMA SUTRA: A TALE OF LOVE, and Annapurna Sriram’s FUCKTOYS –  construct a more varied and ambiguous portrait of sex work than cinematic representation has often offered. Alongside six narrative fiction features, a program of shorts this Sunday explores the avatar of the dominatrix through experimental and documentary works.

The multisite platform “Combat Breathing Vol. II: A Symposium on Aesthetics and Politics,” curated by KJ Abudu and Adam HajYahia, comes to Anthology starting tomorrow. The 11 programs making up this series respond to the present crisis of escalating imperial violence and the weaponization of the moving image by exploring convergences of aesthetics and politics. Drawing on Third Cinema and other anti-colonial cultural movements, “Combat Breathing” asks where the militant image resides today.

For Anthology members at all tiers, we’ll be hosting a free screening on Monday of two classic TWILIGHT ZONE episodes on 16mm. Members-only screenings are one of the many perks of Anthology membership (which also include free admission to Essential Cinema screenings, reduced admission to all other shows, and discounted merch and books), offering rare opportunities to see oddities and gems from our collection. If you want to catch Monday’s screening, it’s not too late to become a member!

The brand-new restoration of Rufus Butler Seder’s 1984 shoestring-budget gothic horror comedy SCREAMPLAY plays four more times, twice tonight and twice tomorrow. And Lost & Found returns tonight with the New York premiere of Chilean filmmaker Diego Soto’s A HEART AS WILLING!

ALANIS

AVATARS OF THE WHORE
October 2 – 13
In her book “Puta Life”, Juana María Rodríguez writes that the whore embodies the prurient fascination of society’s anxieties around money, sex, and power, which often reveal themselves in filmic representations of people working sex. These representations contribute to the common and tired tropes which inevitably depict people who sell sex – specifically women – as “trafficked” and as possessing loose “morals.” These representations are informed by a global oppression of women that positions sex along a private/public binary, leaving accounts of those selling sex to act as the confessional truth of what sex is like for women. These hollow depictions position whores as vessels for male desire rather than as artisans using the craft of sex to achieve different economic and spiritual goals for themselves.

Taking this ambiguity of the sex trade as its focus, the second iteration of “Avatars of the Whore” (previously titled “Women, Workers, and Whores on Film”) examines a wide range of women working sex across the club, dungeon, street, and bayou to meet multifaceted ends that include breaking a curse, negotiating childcare, seeking erotic enlightenment, and so on. The films gathered here reflect a diversity of experiences of working sex – through the various avatars of the profession – that combat the stigmatization of being a “whore” in society.

Guest-programmed by Ayanna Dozier, who wrote the introduction and individual film descriptions.

Special thanks to Ariel Esteban Cayer (Kani Releasing); Michelle Handelman; Brett Kashmere & Zachary Epcar (Canyon Cinema); Mira Nair; Julia Petrocelli (Film-Makers’ Coop); Timothy Petryni (Trashtown Pictures); Elizabeth Purchell (Muscle Distribution); Michael Repsch (Dark Star Pictures); Annapurna Sriram; and Ione Wang.

Anahí Berneri
ALANIS
2017, 82 min, DCP. In Spanish with English subtitles.
Set in Argentina, ALANIS navigates the life of a single sex working parent. Though Alanis faces a deluge of problems with clients that plague every woman selling sex, the real threat to her security and the safety of her child stems from the social workers and laws that construct obstacles under the guise of protecting “precarious” women and children.
Fri, Oct 2 at 6:45 and Mon, Oct 5 at 8:45.

Cheryl Dunye
MOMMY IS COMING
2012, 64 min, DCP
When the woes of monogamy affect the queer sex life of Dylan and Claudia, the couple enlist the help of sex professionals to reinvigorate their passion. These professionals range from the dominatrixes of the underground nightclub dungeons in Berlin to the sex educational help of Dylan’s mom. Through these sexcapades the women learn about their self-esteem, libido, and all the ways in which they become their mothers.
Fri, Oct 2 at 9:00, Mon, Oct 5 at 6:45, and Tues, Oct 6 at 6:45.

KAMA SUTRA: A TALE OF LOVE

Mira Nair
KAMA SUTRA: A TALE OF LOVE
1996, 117 min, 35mm-to-DCP
In KAMA SUTRA: A TALE OF LOVE, Mira Nair examines the stigmatization of sexually promiscuous and unmarried women by the upper class in 16th-century India. The film follows Maya, a servant, who embarks on a journey of self-discovery through the art and spiritual practice of being a courtesan. Though ultimately a film about love, as signaled in the title, the film presents a rare historical fictional account of the spiritual art of working sex in the 16th-century.
Sat, Oct 3 at 4:45 and Tues, Oct 6 at 8:30.

Annapurna Sriram
FUCKTOYS
2025, 106 min, DCP
Set in the alternate universe of Trashtown (but filmed in the American South), Annapurna Sriram’s debut feature film FUCKTOYS is a surrealist queer black comedy about a young woman on a mission to break a curse. Throughout a chaotic 24-hour journey, the protagonist (and her compatriots) navigate the intersecting oppressive systems of capitalism that make hustlers out of us all in pursuit of a spiritual, if not ecstatic, release of the body and soul.
Sat, Oct 3 at 7:30.

THE DOMINATRIX SLEEPS TONIGHT
Taking the avatar of the dominatrix as its starting point, this short film program gathers together various films made – across a 40-year period – by or in collaboration with those who have experience in the leathersex scene. As an avatar of working sex, the figure of the dominatrix is elusive in so far as she uses the theater of the scene of “violation” to both pursue and obfuscate her desires. Though cinema longs to unmask the dominatrix to witness her “true” self, this program instead finds pleasure in the artifice of the scene wherein various characters find themselves at the mercy of the seductive and controlling gaze of the dominatrix. The shorts here range from documentary exercises of sadism, like Ione Wang’s WHEN I LOOK AT YOU, I SEE ME, to the electric pop-music video work of Beth B’s THE DOMINATRIX SLEEPS TONIGHT, made for the band Dominatrix. Shorts by Azian Nurudin and Michelle Handelman from the late 1980s and early 1990s invite a reconsideration of race, power, and aesthetics through their respectively overlooked and censored films, while M.M. Serra and Maria Beatty’s work demonstrates the aesthetic bliss that emerges from submitting to the fantasies of a powerful woman.

Azian Nurudin NANCY’S NIGHTMARE 1988, 5 min, digital
Michelle Handelman CATSCAN 1989, 6 min, Super-8mm-to-digital. Made with with Monte Cazazza.
M.M. Serra & Jennifer Reeves DARLING INTERNATIONAL 1999, 22 min, 16mm-to-digital
Maria Beatty THE BLACK GLOVE 1996, 30 min, digital
Beth B THE DOMINATRIX SLEEPS TONIGHT 1984, 4 min, video
Ione Wang WHEN I LOOK AT YOU, I SEE ME 2024, 7 min, digital

Total running time: ca. 80 min.
Sun, Oct 4 at 4:00 and Tues, Oct 13 at 7:00.

MY NAME AIN'T SUZIE

Angie Chen
MY NAME AIN’T SUZIE / FA GAI SI DOI
1985, 96 min, 35mm-to-DCP. In Cantonese and Mandarin with English subtitles.
Positioned as a rebuke to the colonial fantasy of THE WORLD OF SUZIE WONG (1960), MY NAME AIN’T SUZIE spans three decades of the life of a girl from a poor fishing village who makes a name for herself as a courtesan in the Wan Chai red light district in Hong Kong. Over the course of the film, MY NAME AIN’T SUZIE confronts and redresses the occidental fantasies of the East through the protagonists’ interactions with her clients.
Sun, Oct 4 at 6:15 and Wed, Oct 7 at 6:30.

Monika Treut & Elfi Mikesch
SEDUCTION: THE CRUEL WOMAN / VERFÜHRUNG – DIE GRAUSAME FRAU
1985, 84 min, 16mm-to-DCP. In German with English subtitles.
In SEDUCTION: THE CRUEL WOMAN, Wanda is a dominatrix and gallerist who invites patrons to witness her scenes with her submissives. Inspired by the Marquis de Sade’s “Venus in Furs”, writer-directors Monika Treut and Elfi Mikesch spin Sade’s tale of power, apathy, and pleasure to foreground the role the spectator (both imagined and real) plays in enabling these violating acts to occur.
Sun, Oct 4 at 9:00, Wed, Oct 7 at 9:00, and Tues, Oct 13 at 9:15.

VECINO, VECINO

COMBAT BREATHING
October 1 – 8
“Combat Breathing Vol. II: A Symposium on Aesthetics and Politics” is a multisite platform, spanning film screenings, critical discussions, and focused workshops that unfolds throughout October 2026 at Anthology Film Archives, New York University, and Wendy’s Subway. Responding to the current geopolitical juncture, it asks what roles artistic and intellectual production, circulation, and collective study might assume amid intensifying imperial violence and renewed global mobilizations. In an era when audiovisual technologies are increasingly deployed to discipline collective imagination and stabilize statist and capitalist power, the symposium responds by foregrounding insurgent poetics, militant pedagogy, and autonomous infrastructures of media production, distribution, and reception.

Drawing on the histories of Third Cinema and other anti-colonial and anti-imperial cultural movements, the film program at Anthology Film Archives considers how these traditions persist, mutate, and reemerge in the present. Organized into six chapters comprising twenty-seven films, “Combat Breathing” explores the convergences of aesthetics and politics: how they take form on screen; where the militant image resides today; how images index and reveal infrastructures of labor; the pervasiveness of and resistance to carceral logics; the strategic reappropriations of imaging technologies; and film’s capacity to institute and reorganize desire.

Curated by KJ Abudu and Adam HajYahia.

For more information, visit the Combat Breathing website.

Special thanks to all the filmmakers, and to Miguel Abreu Gallery; Brian Belovarac (Janus Films); Hanan Coumal (LUX); Greene Naftali; Cali Guisto (Frameline); Bob Hunter (Icarus Films); Lisson Gallery; Kristin MacDonough & Emily Martin (VDB); Roselly Torres (Third World Newsreel); Andrew Weiner (New York University); and Todd Wiener & Steven Hill (UCLA Film & Television Archive).

INSURGENT POIESIS
Marking the opening of “Combat Breathing Vol. II”, this film program brings together contemporary artworks that emerge from commitments to or embeddedness within political struggles and streams of anti-imperialist thought. Here, moving images function as social productions made for collective engagement, transforming mere viewership into situated modes of cinematic “spect-actor-ship,” to borrow from theorist Augusto Boal. Taken together, these films, informed by various experimental and militant traditions of image-making, model the inseparability of and dynamic correspondences between form and content. Titled “Insurgent Poiesis”, the program simultaneously proposes the moving image as a means for agitational ideological dissemination and a space for poetic invention: a form capable of circulating ideas while remaining open to a multiplicity of meanings, unexpected encounters, and unbounded experimentation. Refusing the fiction of aesthetic autonomy, the film program begins with the recognition that all artistic and cultural productions are ideologically conditioned. The selected films by Tony Cokes, Filipa César, Basel Abbas and Ruanne Abou-Rahme, Shiva Addanki, Colectivo Los Ingrávidos, and Camila Galaz figure the political and philosophical entwinement of poiesis and revolutionary activity: bringing something into existence that did not exist before, producing “a world where many worlds fit – un mundo donde quepan muchos mundos” by any means necessary.

Tony Cokes EVIL.35: CARLIN / OWNERS 2012, 8 min, DCP
Filipa César TRANSMISSION FROM THE LIBERATED ZONES 2015, 30 min, DCP
Basel Abbas & Ruanne Abou-Rahme OH SHINING STAR TESTIFY 2016-19, 10 min, DCP
Shiva Addanki A PERMANENT OPIUM WAR 2026, 10 min, DCP 
Colectivo Los Ingrávidos FACES IN THE CROWD 2: MEMORIAL 2019, 14 min, 16mm-to-DCP  
Camila Galaz VECINO, VECINO 2022, 20 min, DCP
 
Total running time: ca. 95 min.
Thurs, Oct 1 at 6:30. Followed by a conversation between KJ Abudu, Basel Abbas and Ruanne Abou-Rahme, Omar Berrada, Camila Galaz, and Adam HajYahia!

SUNFLOWER SIEGE ENGINE

THE TIME BENEATH THE CONCRETE
“I’m in jail out here, I’m in jail in there.” –Hugh Masekela

The prison is the institutionalization of a logic central to the systemic formation and reproduction of racial capitalism and colonialism. It remains the primary form in modernity through which states (either under ostensibly opposing but in truth co-constituting liberal democratic and fascistic guises) manage surplus populations, extract surplus value, break social and kinship relations, and utilize the captive body to control not only those within its walls, but also those on the outside. This film program borrows its title – and something of its poetic and conceptual grammar – from the writing of scholar Nasser Abourahme, who in his book “The Time Beneath the Concrete” brings the prison into immediate relation with the colony and the refugee camp in Palestine. Extending his analysis to the ghetto and the reservation within the U.S. context as additional sites of enclosure, this program with works by Alex Johnston, Sky Hopinka, and Larry Clark attends not only to the violence of imprisonment, but also to the ways such sites have and continue to be made into focal points of struggle by those whose lives they seek to crush and mold. What emerges is a transnational, historically grounded, and situated account of the carceral system that traces the prison’s many reinventions while insisting that the project of enclosure, however violently renewed, is never complete.

Alex Johnston EVIDENCE OF THE EVIDENCE 2018, 20 min, DCP 
Sky Hopinka SUNFLOWER SIEGE ENGINE 2022, 12 min, DCP 
Larry Clark AS ABOVE, SO BELOW 1973, 52 min, 16mm-to-DCP
 
Total running time: ca. 90 min.
Fri, Oct 2 at 7:00. Introduced by Chris Knowles!

CINÉ-GUERRILLAS: SCENES FROM THE LABUDOVIĆ REELS

PERPETUAL RECURRENCES
What characterizes the militant image? What historical conditions produced it and what kinds of histories were, in turn, produced by it? Where might it be found today? This program brings together a selection of contemporary works that frontally engage the legacies and continuities of Third Cinema and the tricontinental geographies of leftist, anti-colonial collaboration and mobilization that were this cultural movement’s primary condition of possibility. These works, as with Third Cinema, refuse clear-cut divisions between formal acuity and socio-political signification, and ground cinema’s documentative, archival, and imaginative powers as useful tools in the ongoing decolonizing process. Such a process involves grappling with the positive and negative lessons of prior movements in order to deduce alternative pathways to liberation.

The selected films in this program revisit various sites of unfinished and unfolding anti-colonial struggle, from Ghana and Palestine to Yugoslavia and Algeria. Orienting viewers toward critical reflections on the historical twists and turns of the capitalist world-system on macro and interpersonal scales while remaining firmly rooted in their respective presents, the works by Mila Turajlić, John Akomfrah with Black Audio Film Collective, and Reem Shilleh further articulate the persisting structures of colonialism in their intensifications and mutations following from these mid-twentieth-century decolonization movements. The continuity of said conditions into this millennium can only ever engender, as these films themselves embody, the “perpetual recurrence” of a countervailing militant image.

PERPETUAL RECURRENCES, PART 1
Mila Turajlić
CINÉ-GUERRILLAS: SCENES FROM THE LABUDOVIĆ REELS
2022, 94 min, DCP
Based on resurrected 35mm footage shot by Stevan Labudović, the official cameraman of former Yugoslav President Tito, this documentary by Mila Turajlić takes viewers on an archival road trip through the insurgent historical streams and collaborative Third World networks that constituted and sustained the Algerian anti-colonial struggle from 1954-62. Turajlić follows Labudović’s work in Algeria through intimate interviews with him and Algerian revolutionary contemporaries, matching his newsreel footage – audiovisual testaments to tricontinental solidarity – with excerpts from his diary. Employing only images of the Algerian War not shown from a French perspective, CINÉ-GUERRILLAS wades through the media and propaganda battle that played out during the liberation struggle, where cinema was mobilized as a political weapon of resistance against colonialism and empire as well as a social, imaginative medium of world-making.
Sat, Oct 3 at 4:00. Introduced by Carmen Amengual!

PERPETUAL RECURRENCES, PART 2
John Akomfrah & Black Audio Film Collective
TESTAMENT
1988, 80 min, 16mm-to-DCP
TESTAMENT is among the earliest feature-length works created by the pioneering UK-based art group, Black Audio Film Collective (of which John Akomfrah was a founding member). Synthesizing the languages of Third Cinema and avant-garde montage with the lamentational affects of postcolonial disillusionment, TESTAMENT offers a probing spectral meditation on the condition of the African postcolony. The film’s protagonist, Abena, is an exiled activist turned television reporter who returns to Ghana two decades after the 1966 coup that brought an end to President Kwame Nkrumah’s experiment in Pan-African socialism. Adrift in a “war zone of memories,” Abena is caught in the cleavage between public history and private memory. Characteristic of the collective’s now-signature blend of archival documents, fictional sequences, and layered sound scores, TESTAMENT enfolds depopulated frames, frigid tones, allegories of mourning, and a cast of enigmatic characters to evoke an emotional landscape of loss and arrested political possibility.
Sat, Oct 3 at 6:30. Introduced by Christian Nyampeta.

PERPETUAL RECURRENCES, PART 3
Reem Shilleh
PERPETUAL RECURRENCES
2016, 60 min, DCP
A meta-reflection on the militant image and its contemporary reappearances, PERPETUAL RECURRENCES montages scenes extracted from numerous films and videos created over the last four decades by Palestinians and about Palestine, tracking thematic, gestural, and compositional repetitions between works produced during the Palestinian revolutionary period of 1968-82, the period following the 1993 Oslo Accords, and the volatile twenty-first century. Through Reem Shilleh’s methodical stitching together of repeating filmic occurrences – with respect to location, political discourse, mise-en-scene, objects, and so on – various scenes become unfixed from their narrative contexts and historical conditions, inviting expansive associations and haunting correspondences. Meandering in a seemingly improvised fashion between cinematic fragments of classroom instruction and conversing militants gathered under trees to handheld camera shots of refugee camps and moving car shots of streets, checkpoints, and landscapes, Shilleh’s vast media traversal materializes an equally lyrical and deconstructive reimagination of exercises in film programming.
Sat, Oct 3 at 8:30. Introduced by Tiffany Malakooti.

TAKING BACK THE LEGISLATURE

POSTSCRIPTS OF MODERNITY
The promises and outcomes of modernity – nation-states and capitalist economies, along with their alienating and extractivist logics and infrastructures – have produced immeasurable catastrophic damage to peoples and living environments across racial and class lines. Throughout their reign, these violent systems have not simply been justified by the values of universality, individual freedom, and liberal secular democracy; they have been produced through them, eliminating and exploiting all that does not measure up or conform to their suffocating parameters.

Central to modernity, and to modern discourse more broadly, is the capture of technology as a transhistorical practice and its transformation into a supposedly modern conception governed by the logic of progress. “Postscripts of Modernity” is a film program that engages these catastrophic and violent legacies while demonstrating how film, itself a modern technology, might visualize and facilitate other social relations – in other words, how existing at-hand technologies, currently governed by the reign of capital, might be appropriated and subverted to achieve ends nonsynchronous with their intended uses. The works by Hong Kong Documentary Filmmakers, Bahar Noorizadeh, and Nadir Bouhmouch disavow modernity’s violence not by returning to an imagined precolonial or precapitalist past, but by insisting on a kind of crude presentism. Their diverse aesthetic interventions within the political contexts they respectively work in embrace whatever tools are currently available within modernity as material for the struggle against it.

POSTSCRIPTS OF MODERNITY, PART 1
Hong Kong Documentary Filmmakers TAKING BACK THE LEGISLATURE 2020, 45 min, DCP 
Bahar Noorizadeh AFTER SCARCITY 2018, 30 min, DCP 
 
Total running time: ca. 80 min.
Sun, Oct 4 at 4:15. Introduced by Harris Chowdhary.

POSTSCRIPTS OF MODERNITY, PART 2
Nadir Bouhmouch
AMUSSU
2019, 100 min, DCP
The people of the Moroccan village of Imider may live alongside the largest silver mine in Africa, but they have reaped few of its benefits. The mine’s encroachment upon their communal life has rendered their existence increasingly precarious, contributing to water scarcity and threatening the community’s almond orchards, oasis, and traditional ways of life. In 2011, the villagers responded by shutting down a pipeline supplying water to the mine and establishing a protest camp around it, inaugurating a struggle that would last to this day. Rather than centering scenes of confrontation, arrest, intimidation, and police violence, which are all part of the fight against the infrastructures of this pipeline, AMUSSU turns its attention to the everyday life, resilience, and creativity of those who sustain the struggle. Conceived as a participatory filmic project, AMUSSU was produced through collective decision-making guided by the community’s Agraw protocol, while community members not only learned to operate film equipment but also participated directly in filming. In this sense, the film constitutes both a formal and methodological intervention into the practice of radical independent cinema. Years after the initial uprising, the protest camp has evolved into a small, largely self-sufficient community, where music, theater, poetry, and other artistic practices have emerged as a revolutionary vernacular. These forms of expression do more than accompany the struggle, as they become part of its infrastructure, sustaining collective memory, solidarity, and an ongoing demand for land, water, and a life lived with dignity.
Sun, Oct 4 at 6:30. Introduced by Alma Chaouachi.

THEIR EYES

LABORING IMAGES, IMAGING LABOR
In 1895, cinema’s inaugural image was made by Louis Lumière in France. Autologically titled LA SORTIE DE L’USINE LUMIÈRE À LYON (WORKERS LEAVING THE LUMIÈRE FACTORY IN LYON), the silent black-and-white film holds its frame still as workers exit the factory gates. Replete with historical and symbolic connotations, this early image – revisited and reexamined by Harun Farocki nearly a century later – both refers to cinematic technology’s inextricable relationship with emergent forms of modern industrial labor while it simultaneously stages the factory floor, long imagined as labor’s primary site of exploitation and organization, as being left behind.

“Laboring Images, Imaging Labor” departs from this visually rendered tension by considering how labor constitutes film and how film, in turn, gives form to structurally occluded and socially dispersed realities and conditions of labor. Moving from reflections on the position of labor under communist social formations; to the uncounted, feminized work of social reproduction; to the psychic and gestural labors of revolutionary dreaming and fugitive plotting; to the co-constitutive relationships between racialization and ascendant regimes of gig and AI-training labor, the films gathered here ask what makes – and unmakes – the laboring social body and the formations it sustains. The works of Sara Gómez, Dina Mimi, Maissa Maatouk, Nicolas Gourault, and Jean-Marie Straub and Danièle Huillet show us not only what comprises the systemic category of labor under global capitalism, but how moving images make labor’s multiple, stratified realities perceptible.

LABORING IMAGES, IMAGING LABOR, PART 1
Sara Gómez ABOUT EXTRA HOURS AND VOLUNTEER WORK / SOBRE HORAS EXTRAS Y TRABAJO VOLUNTARIO 1973, 9 min, 16mm-to-DCP 
Sara Gómez YEAR ONE / AÑO UNO 1972, 9 min, 16mm-to-DCP 
Dina Mimi THOUSAND THRASHING ARMS 2024, 13 min, DCP 
Maissa Maatouk EXERCISE IN WAITING 2023, 7 min, DCP 
Nicolas Gourault THEIR EYES 2025, 23 min, DCP

Total running time: ca. 65 min.
Tues, Oct 6 at 6:30. Introduced by Nour Annan.

LABORING IMAGES, IMAGING LABOR, PART 2
Jean-Marie Straub & Danièle Huillet
SICILIA!
1999, 66 min, 35mm
Adapted from Elio Vittorini’s antifascist novel “Conversations in Sicily”, Straub and Huillet’s SICILIA! follows Silvestro, a migrant returning to his native island after fifteen years in New York to visit his mother. Silvestro’s journey unfolds through a series of encounters: with an orange seller unable to live from his crop, fellow passengers, and a knife grinder searching for blades to sharpen. Their highly composed conversations move between hunger, unemployment, migration, socialism, and the dignity of an honest day’s work. The return home offers neither restoration nor escape; instead, it reveals how displacement binds distant geographies through shared conditions of dispossession. Straub and Huillet locate antifascism within speech, memory, and the gestures of working people, whose experiences resist the language imposed upon them by the state. In the film’s stark images and carefully measured voices, labor becomes both a record of exploitation and a living repository of the substance necessary for revolution.
Tues, Oct 6 at 8:15. Introduced by Perwana Nazif!

ODDS AND ENDS

READ MY DESIRE
Social orders are resisted and overturned not merely because the dominant classes create unlivable conditions for the dominated classes, but also because the dominated classes actively and transgenerationally imagine, prefigure, and desire the realization of alternative social relations that cannot be accommodated by the present order. Such disruptive, exorbitant, and irrepressible desires – often structurally designated as queer – are the focus of this program. “Read My Desire” invokes the work of philosopher Joan Copjec and echoes her formulations that desire precisely emerges from the divisions within the subject which cannot be reduced to social identity or captured by historical regimes.

Bringing together historical and contemporary works to explore cinema’s desire-producing capacity as well as the often-elided place of desire, love, eroticism, and sensuality in social movements and associated streams of cultural production, the program traverses multiple geographies and genres, including sci-fi, music video, mythical fable, narrative drama, parodic documentary, and experimental film. The selected works by Marlon Riggs, Valentin Noujaïm, Michelle Parkerson, Peng Zuqiang, Jumana Manna, and Naomi Rincon Gallardo theorize the function of desire in reorienting the horizons of liberation struggles and affirming subjectivities at continual risk of erasure.

READ MY DESIRE, PART 1
Marlon Riggs ANTHEM 1991, 9 min, DCP 
Valentin Noujaïm OCEANIA 2024, 24 min, 16mm-to-DCP 
Michelle Parkerson ODDS AND ENDS 1993, 28 min, DCP

Total running time: ca. 65 min.
Thurs, Oct 8 at 6:30. Introduced by Carlos Motta.

READ MY DESIRE, PART 2
Peng Zuqiang SIGHT LEAK 2022, 12 min, 16mm & Super-8mm-to-DCP 
Jumana Manna BLESSED BLESSED OBLIVION 2010, 21 min, DCP 
Naomi Rincon Gallardo PATLACHE ANT NEST 2025, 21 min, DCP
 
Total running time: ca. 60 min.
Thurs, Oct 8 at 8:15. Introduced by Omar Alsayyed.

THE MIDNIGHT SUN

AFA MEMBERS ONLY – FREE SCREENING!
TWILIGHT ZONE ON 16MM
October 5
Anthology’s Members-Only screenings feature sneak-previews of upcoming features, programs of rare materials from Anthology’s collections, in-person filmmaker presentations, and more! The benefits of an Anthology membership have always been plentiful: free admission to over 100 Essential Cinema programs, reduced admission to all other shows, and discounted AFA publications. But with these screenings – free, open only to members, and including special receptions – we sweeten the pot even further.

For the next Members-Only event, we’ll present two episodes of THE TWILIGHT ZONE – the classic TIME ENOUGH AT LAST and the timely, extreme-heat-themed THE MIDNIGHT SUN – screening from 16mm prints that reside in Anthology’s collection (thanks to a donation by David Mulkins). The screening will culminate with a special, unannounced film!

Become a member at our box office, or online.

John Brahm
TIME ENOUGH AT LAST
1959, 27 min, 16mm. Written by Rod Serling. With Burgess Meredith.

Anton Leader
THE MIDNIGHT SUN
1961, 27 min, 16mm. Written by Rod Serling. With Lois Nettleton.

Plus, a special surprise!

Total running time: ca. 85 min.
Mon, Oct 5 at 7:00.

THEATRICAL PREMIERE RUN – NEW RESTORATION!
SCREAMPLAY
September 25 – October 1
Edgar Allan (Rufus B. Seder) is an aspiring screenwriter who has just come to Hollywood to make it in the movies…only to wind up working as the janitor at a fleabag apartment complex run by the greasy ex-boxer Martin (played by underground film legend George Kuchar). When Edgar begins channeling his frustrations with his kooky neighbors into fodder for his latest screenplay, the vivid murder scenes he writes begin to happen for real. As the bodies begin to pile up and the line between reality and fiction become increasingly blurred, Edgar, who is convinced that the only way to be a real writer is to suffer, is slowly driven mad.

SCREAMPLAY is a marvel of campy charm, gothic horror tropes, and astonishingly inventive set design and special effects. Wearing its low-budget resourcefulness on its sleeve, but also genuinely atmospheric and transporting, the spell it casts is all the more remarkable given that it was filmed almost entirely within the confines of the 3,200-square-foot South End Boston loft where director Rufus Butler Seder and his Boston Black and White Movie Company (comprised of fellow students from the city’s School of the Museum of Fine Arts) had previously made a bevy of similarly inspired 16mm short films. Conjured from some of the earliest and still-most-effective cinematic techniques – matte paintings, scale models, ingeniously adaptable sets, animation, highly expressionistic lighting, and the good old-fashioned magic provided by charismatic performers (above all, Seder himself in the central role, and of course the irreplaceable George Kuchar, who broke his ankle during filming of the final fight scene) – SCREAMPLAY is a deliriously entertaining demonstration of the power of low budget invention, and a singularly charming (Boston) salute to Old Hollywood.

Premiered (alongside BLOOD SIMPLE) at the 1985 New York Independent Film Festival, initially distributed by Troma (click here for details about our upcoming Troma series), but rarely screened in recent decades, SCREAMPLAY has been newly restored in 4K – scanned from Seder’s personal 16mm print – and is now back in circulation, where it’s poised to charm, delight, and frighten a whole new audience.

Rufus Butler Seder
SCREAMPLAY
1984, 91 min, 16mm-to-DCP. New 4K restoration by Muscle Distribution in association with Matchbox Cine.

Preceded by:
Rufus Butler Seder
IN THE CITY: A TRILOGY (LIVE IN FEAR; SUN RUN; PHANTOM SUBWAYS)
1977, 6 min, 16mm-to-DCP
Wed & Thurs, Sept 30 & Oct 1 at 6:45 & 9:00 nightly.

LOST & FOUND: CINE(MA)S LATINOAMERICANOS RE-UNIDOS
September 30
New York City, despite its status as a world capital of cinema, regularly misses out on screenings of many key international films. Though the exhibition of Latin American cinema in the city has drastically increased over the years, a considerable number of influential movies from the region still fail to premiere locally. In 2017, Anthology Film Archives and Cinema Tropical joined forces to create an ongoing series – programmed by Matías Piñeiro and Carlos A. Gutiérrez – of monthly screenings featuring remarkable Latin American films making their local premiere. We paused the series (formerly entitled “If You Can Screen It There”) following the pandemic, but we’re delighted to revive it now, rechristened as “Lost & Found: Cine(ma)s Latinoamericanos Re-Unidos”. Far from minor works, the films included here are by some of the region’s most important filmmakers, have garnered major awards at international festivals, and provide an important window into the often-overlooked world of Latin American cinema.

Co-presented by Anthology Film Archives and Cinema Tropical. Programmed by Matías Piñeiro and Carlos A. Gutiérrez.

NEW YORK PREMIERE!
Diego Soto
A HEART AS WILLING / LA CORAZONADA
Chile, 2025, 78 min, DCP. In Spanish with English subtitles.
Nieves runs a modest inn with her son in the Chilean countryside, leading a quiet life shaped by routine and deferred dreams. When a wandering motorcyclist arrives and falls for her, the prospect of a late-blooming romance offers an unexpected glimpse of happiness – yet their relationship seems destined to falter. Everything changes with the arrival of a filmmaker who casts them in her adaptation of Shakespeare’s “The Tempest”, drawing them into the creative process and gradually blurring the boundaries between performance and reality. As fiction begins to reshape their everyday lives, new emotional possibilities emerge in this playful and deeply human meditation on love, aging, cinema, and the mysterious ways stories transform those who inhabit them.
Wed, Sept 30 at 7:00.

CURRENT PROGRAMMING FROM OUR FRIENDS:
• JEAN-LUC GODARD: UNMADE AND ABANDONED
September 15 – October 15 at L'Alliance New York
Over the course of his phenomenally productive career, Jean-Luc Godard had hundreds of unmade and abandoned projects. By setting a selection of Godard’s completed films in dialogue with others by him and a range of different directors, this program reveals the vast and varied phantom body of unrealized ventures that lie behind or in the intervals in his completed oeuvre and casts in relief his creative process. AFA members can email the membership desk to receive a special discount code for 20% off tickets!

• GHOSTBUSTERS IN CONCERT
October 17 at United Palace
Experience GHOSTBUSTERS, the beloved 1984 classic, like never before, at the historic, awe-inspiring United Palace in Washington Heights. Ghostbusters In Concert is the ultimate movie adventure, presented on a huge HD screen and fully synced to Academy Award®-winning composer Elmer Bernstein’s spine-tingling, unforgettable score, performed live by a 14-piece orchestra.

PLAYING WITH FIRE, screening Sat and Sun, October 10 and 11 in "The Cinema of Gender Transgression"

COMING SOON:
• THE CINEMA OF GENDER TRANSGRESSION
October 8 – 12
Guest-programmed by Joey Carducci and Angelo Madsen, this extensive, ongoing series exploring the ways in which cinema has intersected with the experiences, struggles, and ideas of transgender, non-binary, and gender-nonconforming lives and communities. The October chapter features a retrospective of Berlin-based multi-disciplinary artist Vika Kirchenbauer (with Kirchenbauer in person!), whose expansive work exploring the politics of labor, performance, language, and art history over the past two decades has distinguished her practice as rigorous, perplexing, and thoroughly singular. The series will continue with an in-person appearance from Annie Sprinkle & Beth Stephens, who will present the NYC premiere screenings of the third film in their climate crisis trilogy: PLAYING WITH FIRE: AN ECOSEXUAL EMERGENCY (2025).

• VACANCES – FILMMAKER IN PERSON!
October 9 – 13
A mixture of warts-and-all family portraiture, subtle exposé of class and privilege, and minimalist depiction of a particular setting that’s rendered with an almost miraculously tactile sense of presence, photographer and filmmaker Victoria Hely-Hutchinson’s VACANCES is a deceptively unassuming film. Filmed over the course of a decade at the property in Provence inhabited by Hely-Hutchinson’s outrageously uninhibited Austro-Hungarian countess grandmother, VACANCES grew out of Hely-Hutchinson’s 2016 short film of the same name, and is something of a complement to her 2023 photo book, I Left My Grandmother’s House. The documentary delves, with a grace and open-endedness that belies its analytical bite, into both the bigger-than-life personality of “granny” and the sometimes strained dynamics among the rest of the family. Suggesting by turns cinema vérité, reality TV, chamber theater, and landscape cinema, VACANCES is a singular work – a film whose technique is nearly invisible, but which sneaks up on you with its trenchant perceptions, layered meanings, and emotional and filmic complexity.

• WOMEN IN ANIMATION
October 11 – 13
By no means an exhaustive history, this series – guest-programmed by Rachael Guma and co-presented by WIA – attempts to chronicle the many talents of women working in animation. Lost to time until recently, FLOWER FAIRIES by Bessie Mae Kelley is the earliest-known hand-drawn animated film directed by a woman. Other women artists who worked within the animation studio system were largely uncredited for their contributions, while still others collaborated with male colleagues to create their own studios, such as Joy Batchelor & John Halas (represented here by THE OWL AND THE PUSSYCAT) and Morton & Millie Goldsholl (INTERGALACTIC ZOO). Program 1 of the series focuses on family-friendly animations depicting the animal kingdom. Program 2 features animations that reflect on a diversity of experiences of womanhood, from being idolized to being a mother to being a woman of the world. Program 3, co-presented with the animation collective Sunflower Lane, encompasses personal stories of reproductive health, meditations on existence, and an animated interview about female friendship.

Membership + Donations

There has never been a better time to support Anthology. Like many small arts organizations, Anthology is sensitive to the financial and administrative challenges of these times. By joining or renewing your membership, purchasing a membership for a friend, or making a tax-deductible donation of any amount, you can help to support our film exhibition and film preservation operations!

Join or renew your membership

Anthology Film Archives is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization and is partially funded by: