UID:622 | 2026-09-30 | "Printed Matter" <news@printedmatter.org> | October Events at Printed Matter

Launches, Panels, and Conversations this October
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

View this email in your browser

Book Launches, Panels, & Conversations: October lineup at Printed Matter

This month we are hosting many events celebrating new artists’ publications and creative projects, from Melissa Auf der Maur’s iconic ‘90s rock photography and Matías Duville’s trilingual travel guide Monitor Yin Yang, to K8 Hardy’s Positions and Nina Katchadourian’s Seat Assignment. We’ll also dive into discussions with the second installment of our Insider Trading panel series, a launch and conversation on Rong Xin, and RisoLAB Talks vol. 5.

 

UPCOMING EVENTS

Melissa Auf der Maur: My ‘90s Rock Photographs

Conversation with Laia Garcia-Furtado

Thursday, October 1, 6–8PM
231 11th Ave

Melissa will be joined in conversation by Laia Garcia-Furtado, Deputy Culture Director at Harper’s Bazaar. As the bass player for iconic ’90s alternative rock bands Hole and Smashing Pumpkins, Melissa Auf der Maur toured the world while documenting life backstage, onstage and in the crowd. Having studied photography at Concordia University, she maintained a daily practice on the road, requesting a roll of 35mm film at every venue and using self-timers and cable releases to photograph herself in the middle of performances. Learn more about the event.

 

Matías Duville: Monitor Yin Yang

Book Launch and Conversation

Wednesday, October 7, 6–8PM

231 11th Ave

Join us for a launch event and conversation with Matías Duville, Michel Nieva, and Josefina Barcia celebrating Duville’s new publication, Monitor Yin Yang. The accompanying 216-page trilingual publication (Spanish, English, and Italian) is conceived as a travel guide and features essays by Nieva and Barcia, 50 drawings, a photographic travel album by Duville, and a fold-out map of the pavilion. Learn more about the event.

Positions by K8 Hardy

Launch and Conversation

Thursday, October 8, 6–8PM

231 11th Ave

Join us for a launch event and conversation with multimedia artist K8 Hardy to celebrate her new book, Positions. The publication features all 50 photographs from Hardy’s pathbreaking Position Series (2007–12) alongside previously unseen images. Drawing on DIY fashion and early 2000s New York queer subcultures, the series uses styled portraits and darkroom interventions to challenge normative identities and portraiture conventions. Learn more about the event.

 

Insider Trading II

Panel with Eli Rosenbloom, Miyako Bellizzi, Yusuf Hassan, and Steff Yotka

Wednesday, October 14, 6–8PM

231 11th Ave

Join us for the second panel of the Insider Trading series at Printed Matter, hosted by Eli Rosenbloom. Operating on the premise that the best conversations about publishing happen off the record, the series examines the anatomy of publishing before print. The upcoming panel, themed "People!", creates a forum for candid conversation among a specific constellation of practitioners. Featured speakers include: Steff Yotka: Editor-in-Chief of i-D magazine. Yusuf Hassan: Artist, publisher, and founder of BlackMass Publishing. Miyako Bellizzi: Academy Award-nominated costume designer. Learn more about the event.

Roaming A Flushing Mall: Rong Xin Book Talk

Launch and Panel

Tuesday, October 20, 6–8PM

231 11th Ave

Join us for the book launch of Rong Xin, published by te editions, featuring a panel discussion with designer Sixuan Tong, editor Michael Guo, and curator/editor Lu Zhang, moderated by curator Herb Tam. The panel will explore the process of translating the 2023 exhibition Home-O-Stasis: Life and Livelihoods in Flushing at Rong Xin Plaza into a published book, highlighting how design connects the artworks, writings, and the mini-mall environment. Learn more about the event.

 

Nina Katchadourian’s Seat Assignment: eleven years of making art on airplanes

Book Discussion

Tuesday, October 27, 6–8PM
231 11th Ave

Join us for an event with interdisciplinary artist Nina Katchadourian celebrating her new publication, Seat Assignment, published by Primitive Books. Seat Assignment captures Katchadourian’s eleven-year project of making art during flights using only onboard materials—such as snacks, magazines, and clothing—documented with her phone camera. Arranged chronologically, hundreds of color photographs highlight her process of improvisation, transforming tray tables, laps, and lavatories into creative spaces. Learn more about the event.

 

RisoLAB Talks vol. 5

Travess Smalley & Kyle Canyon in Conversation — Moderated by Panayiotis Terzis

Wednesday, October 28, 5:30–8PM
231 11th Ave

Join us for RisoLAB Talks vol. 5 to celebrate new print projects by Summer 2026 Artists in Residence Travess Smalley and Kyle Canyon. The artists will discuss their Riso-based book and print editions, followed by a Q&A moderated by RisoLAB Director Panayiotis Terzis and a closing reception with drinks and works available for purchase. Featured Projects: Travess Smalley presents a series of experimental tabloid-size risograph prints alongside his new monograph, Pixel Rugs (Vetro Editions, 2026), which utilizes the fluorescent Quadrifluox printing process. Kyle Canyon presents Gauche Neapolitain Girl, a pop-surrealist, fast-paced comic following a rising Hollywood actress. Learn more about the event.

 

STAFF PICKS 👀

Staff Picks are back, and this week we’re sharing selections from Cheyce, our General Intern:
"My name is Cheyce, I'm a visual artist and artbook maker from Florida. I love weird found imagery, home-printed fanzines, post rock, swamps, researching archives, spending hours in the book section of thrift stores, and I love Printed Matter."

Show - n - tell, Chantal Zakari

webAffairs
Eighteen Publications, 2005
$40

“Growing up in a random town in Florida, online video chatrooms were my entry point to the infinite corners of the world and my own curiosities. I love this diaristic presentation of one person's exploration through these communities and the digital identities people assume often completely compartmentalized from their public ones — the artist even building an alter ego herself as the project goes on.”

Purchase

Shane McKenzie

Suicide Fan Club: Volume 1
Power ? Press, 2025
$35

“I love straightforward, grotesque, Xerox-style fanzines, and I love Suicide and Martin Rev”

Purchase

 

Browse our catalog   ●   Become a member   ●   Make a donation

Printed Matter, Inc.
Printed Matter, Inc. is an independent 501(c)3 non-profit organization founded in 1976 by artists and art workers with the mission to foster the appreciation, dissemination, and understanding of artists’ books and other artists’ publications.

Printed Matter, Inc.

231 11th Avenue

New York, NY 10001

www.printedmatter.org

www.pmabf.org

T: 212 925 0325

Printed Matter’s bookstore is wheelchair accessible.