UID:624 | 2026-09-30 | "Screen Slate Recommends" <jon@screenslate.com> | Screen Slate Recommends Free Screenings with Zoe Kazan at the Paris

The Paris will be hosting a free screening of the first three episodes of the new series, followed by a Q&A with series creator Zoe Kazan on 10/3

SERIES & SCREENING INFO

On October 1, Netflix will release Zoe Kazan’s adaptation of John Steinbeck’s masterpiece East of Eden. The seven-episode series features a formidable cast led by Florence Pugh as the indelible antihero Cathy Ames, whose life is intertwined with the lives of generations of men from the Trask family (including Christopher Abbott as Adam and Mike Faist as Charles) as the characters live out the darker side of the California dream. The series arrives over 70 years after the 1955 film adaptation starring James Dean - directed by Elia Kazan, Zoe’s grandfather - focused solely on the book’s final section.

That family connection to the material, as well as her own abiding love for the novel, made adapting East of Eden a deeply personal and resonant experience for Zoe Kazan. To celebrate the captivating results of her work, the Paris Theater is proud to present The Monster in All of Us: The Films Behind East of Eden, a week-long repertory film series curated in collaboration with Zoe Kazan showcasing films across cinema history that were key inspirations for Kazan throughout her creative process.

The Paris is offering complimentary tickets to Screen Slate subscribers to the following screenings:

 * Friday, October 2 | 6:45 PM - Klute in 35mm, introduced by Zoe Kazan (RSVP here)
 * Saturday, October 3 | 3 PM - East of Eden (2026), Episodes 1-3, Q&A with Zoe Kazan (RSVP here)
 * Sunday, October 4 | 5:45 PM - Notorious, introduced by Zoe Kazan (RSVP here)

Plus, The Paris Theater is also pleased to offer a free popcorn at screenings in this series to Screen Slate subscribers. Just present this email, along with your paid ticket, at the theater.

Sponsored by Paris Theater

Screen Slate's daily newsletter sends out occasional email notices in partnership with its sponsors, which enables us to pay writers and maintain our listings platform. For information on sponsoring Screen Slate contact jon@screenslate.com.

We do not share your information with our promotional partners.