UID:625 | 2026-09-30 | "McNally Jackson Books" <jack.kyono@mcnallyjackson.com> | Every New Yorker Should Join This Book Club

plus: Murakami in Hungary, A Perfect Yellow Raincoat, and Coming Events

View this email in your browser

Dear friends,

Yesterday, the most exciting nonfiction release of the fall finally landed on our tables. Anand Giridharadas's Man in the Mirror is the account of a tragic encounter on the subway between two young men and the societal forces that brought them into conflict. It is a masterclass in narrative nonfiction—propulsive, exhaustively reported, with richly drawn characters and seamlessly woven plot lines. 

And it is, according to Sarah McNally, "the best New York book since The Power Broker." 

We want every New Yorker to read this book, let it transform the way they see this city, and then, come talk to each other. 

That's why we're hosting "New York Reads Man in the Mirror: A Book Club in Three Parts." Led by Anand and Sarah, we will gather in discussion circles at our Seaport store and talk about the issues this book examines: the housing crisis, mental health infrastructure, safety on public transit, and more. 

Join us a month from now, on October 29th, as we convene for the first of three book discussions. For the first meeting, please arrive ready to discuss pages 1-153. RSVP at the button below. 

We hope you read with us. 
 

MAN IN THE MIRROR - First Meeting RSVP

----------------------------------------

It starts with a text: "do you wanna dock today?"

And then, a response: "yes i can be at McNally in like 30." 

So begins the day-off routine of Meetka Otto, our Rewarded Reader for the month of September. When she's not scheduled for a shift at Dimes, the landmark LES restaurant, Meetka and a close friend execute a protocol they inexplicably refer to as "docking." 

"We walk the same route and do the same things and it often even triggers the same conversation starting points. McNally is the epicenter of this habit." (This explains why we see Meetka here on Prince Street so often.) 

After browsing our history sections, Meetka and her friend will walk north on 6th Avenue and hit the other stops on the itinerary: Tashkent Supermarket, a certain perfumerie, and C.O. Bigelow. Whatever was plaguing the pair that morning (hangovers, depressive spells, existential malaise) will be vanquished by the end of the loop, replaced by pleasant aromas and a longer TBR list. Meetka says, "we often come back from docking empty-handed, but then I go back to McNally a few days later, aware of what I want to read next."

On the most recent “docking day," Meetka came by to talk about presidential biographies, reading Murakami in Hungary, and sexual escapades in Lauren Bacall's apartment. 

— Jack 

Not part of our Reader Rewards program yet? Sign up at any of the McNally Jackson or Goods for the Study locations or at this link to start earning 10% off all your purchases and receive a free tote bag.

McNally Jackson: You just told me that you like reading presidential biographies. Forgive me for being surprised. What do you like about them?

Meetka Otto: I started reading them this year after meandering over to the US History section during a docking day in February. I picked up a random book that looked like something my grandpa had, and read one page. Two weeks later I was crying at a bar in Midtown while finishing that same book, Doris Kearns Goodwin's No Ordinary Time, about FDR during the WWII years. They are often action packed. Gerald Ford's biography was dull but insightful. I love how concise they are; the reader has to make the poetry of it all on their own. I don't like poetry so this is good for me.

McJ: What were some of your formative reading experiences growing up?

MO: When I was living in Hungary as a teenager, my mom would send me care packages because I couldn't buy the books I wanted in the small town I was living in. She'd just send me Murakami book after Murakami book and I'd sit in class all day reading while my Hungarian classmates learned physics. I think the teachers thought I was too stupid to learn physics in Hungarian. (I was.) 

McJ: Okay, we know you love (and cried over) No Ordinary Time, but tell me about the rest of the stack you're holding. 

MO: Amsterdam by Ian McEwan is a book I read in two sittings while upstate during peak fall foliage season. The settings in this particular McEwan are so perfectly evocative of the turn of (our) century; the new millenium. It's a much shorter My Brilliant Friend for middle-aged men, and apparently me. 

Torpor by Chris Kraus was also a great autumn read. It takes place and revolves primarily around an attempted adoption in Romania. I read it before going on a trip to Romania to meet a pen pal for the first time. I couldn't put it down! I always recommend this book when someone isn't sure what to read. 

American Scoundrel by Kai Bird is on my to-read list. Now that I've read cradle-to-grave biographies of Nixon, Ford, and Carter, of course Roy's name has been slowly popping up as I get into Reagan's '80s. Thought it’d be fun to divert and I trust Kai Bird greatly. I'm looking forward to it!

McJ: You came in with a couple of friends today. One of them took this photograph. If you had to give each of them a book, what would it be?

MO: Oh yes, Conor and Jazz. I'd give Jazz I Love Dick by Chris Kraus and Conor would get Everyone Here Spoke Sign Language: Hereditary Deafness on Martha's Vineyard by Nora Ellen Groce. 

McJ: Do you have a favorite Hungarian book?

MO: Yes. Agota Kristof's incredible trilogy, The Notebook, The Proof, The Third Lie. The majority of Hungarian authors write post-war depression novels about provincial villages. There’s always suicide, alcoholism, slowness, a horse, an old lady who wants to die, and a beautiful woman. You can have it all in this trilogy.

McJ: Do you have a favorite book about New York?

MO: My favorite book about New York has to be Famous Father Girl by Jamie Bernstein. Leonard Bernstein's daughter's memoir is rich with earnestness and I have read it more than any other book. Who else can say they grew up in the Dakota and knew of her famous dad's clandestine gay escapades in their upstairs neighbor's apartment? (Said neighbor was Lauren Bacall). 

McJ: Are you still a Murakami reader?

MO: No.

Join Reader Rewards

----------------------------------------

Events | Book Clubs | Monthly Bestsellers

----------------------------------------

This email has a tendency to get cut off.
Click "View Entire Message" to see pics of cute pups (& the whole newsletter).

The legendary David Byrne launches SLEEPING BEAUTIES, a brilliant and inspiring reckoning with how breakthroughs across the arts and sciences get forgotten, and how they get rediscovered.

RSVP TO DAVID BYRNE

OCT 15 - 7PM @ Seaport
TO GOD
Esther Yi, author of the acclaimed debut novel Y/N, presents her second book, TO GOD, a daring collection of fiction about alienation, sex, and spiritual inquiry. In conversation with Katy Waldman.
$5 for a seat. RSVP HERE

OCT 26 - 7PM @ Seaport
FAIR ONES
Lydia Millet presents her new novel FAIR ONES, a love song to the intricate annoyances of families both chosen and unchosen—and to the banality, bombast, and humble beauties of midlife friendships. In conversation with Jenny Offill. 
$5  for a seat. RSVP HERE

----------------------------------------

Did you know we have weekly storytimes at all of our stores? Join us at SoHo at 3pm (plus 11am Fridays),Thursdays at 11:30am at Williamsburg, 2pm on Sundays at Seaport, or Downtown Brooklyn at 4pm. Uptown? Saturdays, 2pm, at Rock Center!

----------------------------------------

Rain, endless rain. Last weekend's nor'easter may have cancelled the Brooklyn Book Festival marketplace, the Yankees regular season finale, and at least a dozen Prospect Park birthday picnics, but it certainly didn't cancel Lucy's treat run to the Goods for the Study on 8th Street. 

----------------------------------------

Distract yourself from the outside world going to hell with our curation of books that actually go to Hell. Shop the display at any of our stores or at the button below. 

Make sure you check out the centerpiece of our display: Robert G. Penner's Notes on a Colonial Situation in Hell, the first hardcover original from McNally Editions. Pick up a copy for its wicked satire of the British Empire, its brilliant geographic rendering of Hell, and especially for the little blue demons on the cover. Get your copy here. 

GREETINGS FROM HELL!