UID:626 | 2026-09-30 | "Drom" <office@dromnyc.com> | This Week at DROM:

HearFirst & CEG Present: Danielle Nicole w/ Honey Marmalade, Serkan Tumer, Schtick a Pole In It – Madonna Edition, GIRL EDM [DANCE PARTY], Vocal Gumbo, Queen of the Violin and Friends: Live!, Riki Rose & Nicole Zuraitis.
Having trouble viewing this email? View in browser

YOUR JOURNEY
THROUGH A WORLD OF MUSIC
For 19 years Drom has provided a space in the heart of East Village to celebrate cultural diversity in music from jazz and electronic to soul, hip-hop and world music.

The Devil I Knew album release & Modern Songbook Society Scholarship Fundraiser
Wednesday, September 30, 6:00pm

Tickets

Nicole Zuraitis is a 2X GRAMMY® winning and 6X GRAMMY-nominated jazz singer-songwriter, pianist, producer, arranger and winner of the prestigious 2021 American Traditions Vocal Competition Gold Medal. With a “heart as big as her remarkable voice,” (Jazz Police), Nicole is a trailblazing artist who is redefining vocal jazz and jazz songwriting, earning her a place as one of the top artists and “prolific songwriters” (Broadway World) to watch in jazz and beyond, or as she likes to call it “The Modern Songbook”.

Flamenco Jazz Jam
Thursday, October 1, 6:30pm

Tickets

Experience the raw power of Flamenco fused with the soul of Jazz on October 1st! Expect deep grooves, wild solos, spontaneous magic, and serious vibes.

Pale Ramon w/ Lily Desmond and Katherine Jean
Friday, October 2, 7:00pm

Tickets

Pale Ramon is a New York-based indie psychedelic rock outfit led and co-written by Emanuel Ayvas and Kevin Plessner. The group crafts lush, theatrical soundscapes through rich orchestral arrangements, synth textures, and hypnotic melodies.”

Lily Desmond: A NYC-based violinist, vocalist, and multi-instrumentalist who crafts dramatic experimental pop by layering intricate violin loops with expressive vocals, frequently collaborating across the independent music scene.

Catherine Jean is a Brooklyn-based songwriter and pianist with modal and jazz-theory influences.

Son Mujeres Orquesta
Saturday, October 3, 7:00pm

Tickets

The SON MUJERES orchestra was born the 6th of september of 2018 in Cali-Colombia, from the longing of its director, Mónica Castro Torres, distinguished and known musician of the city, with an extensive international trayectory, as she wanted to make up a musical and artistic aggrupation that performs Salsa at an excellent level.

“La Salsa en Cuerpo de Mujer” was created for this, a show that integrates dance, music, and theater from the origins of Salsa music, performed by 19 artists in the stage and a sound that is supported by instruments like the Vibraphone, strings and drums.

Disco Turco
Saturday, October 3, 10:00pm

Tickets

Join us for a psychedelic journey into Turkish disco and iconic hits at Drom's long-running, multicultural dance party. Everyone is welcome at Disco Turco!

Sylvia Brooks Soliloquy Release Concert
Sunday, October 4, 6:30pm

Tickets

Sylvia Brooks electrifies the jazz scene with her powerhouse vocals and magnetic stage presence. Hailed as a “Master Stylist” by All About Jazz, she brings lyrics to life, turning every song into a vivid story that grabs audiences from the first note
UPCOMING EVENTS

Aggeliki - from Jazz to Hijaz
Friday, October 9, 7:00pm

Tickets

From Jazz to Hijaz is a musical journey across cultures, weaving Greek tradition with jazz and sounds from around the world. Through reimagined classics and original music, Aggeliki explores the melodies, rhythms and improvisational spirit that bridge East and West.

Elis Lovrić
Sunday, October 11, 7:00pm

Tickets

Elis Lovrić’s live show is a mesmerizing blend of acoustic folk and theater—just one woman, her guitar, and a voice that completely commands the room. Singing in the rare, ancient Istrian dialect of Croatia, she crafts an intimate yet powerful sounds

Armadi Tsayn
Thursday, October 15, 6:30pm

Tickets

Armadi Tsayn Live in Concert! 🎶✨

"Sound of the Roots" isn't just a name—it's a movement. Boston-based trio Armadi Tsayn brings their powerhouse blend of Western Armenian folk, Middle Eastern melodies, jazz, and rock to the stage!

Formed by Samuel

Las Guaracheras
Thursday, October 15, 8:00pm

Tickets

The all-female sextet Las Guaracheras was born in 2017 in the city of Cali, Colombia. It is an initiative of the percussionists Laura Linares and Mónica Castro, who as lovers of the son (“sound” in Spanish) and guaracha genres, decided to form an instrumental group in which they could express all their intense musical feelings while, at the same time, preserving the essence of guaracha.

WMI presents Wu Fei and Abigail Washburn
Saturday, October 17, 6:30pm

Tickets

Wu Fei and Abigail Washburn‘s duo project is as unlikely, perhaps, as it was inevitable—a manifest sonic consequence of politics and vibrations commingling across continents. There is a directness in the musical duo format that makes it such a good vehicle for melodic conversations between close friends who obviously listen to each other with an athletic respect matched by their respective virtuosity.
DROM ON TOUR

BUY TICKETS HERE