UID:628 | 2026-09-30 | "MoMI News" <info@movingimage.org> | Handcrafted Horrors series opens, Phone-Free Fridays, free yoga, and more

MoMI News | September 30, 2026

View this email in your browser

MoMI NEWS | September 30, 2026

Dear will,

💚 Thank you to everyone who joined us last weekend to celebrate Jim Henson's birthday—it was a blast! This week our attention turns to October and some seasonally scary movies, with the start of the new screening series Handcrafted Horrors with The Creature from the Black Lagoon in 3-D and Herk Harvey's eerie Carnival of Souls; plus, we present David Lynch's surreal final feature Inland Empire. And this Friday, join us for the opening workshop and reception for Phone-Free Fridays, where you can experience the Museum with a little less distraction.

In Open Worlds: this Saturday, DJs take over the Courtyard for a Hispanic Heritage Month edition of our Spin Series; pop culture historian and collector Mike Drake explores the history of Life Masks in Cinema; author Ingrid Burrington leads an Internet Walk around Astoria (Oct. 10); and free yoga with The Yoga Room returns on three Sundays in October!

Applications are open for local makers to participate in our first artisan market, MoMI Merch Meet.

Coming up: 100th anniversary screening of Lotte Reiniger's animated The Adventures of Prince Achmed in 35mm with live musical accompaniment; critic J. Hoberman introduces Southland Tales (35mm) and Peeping Tom and signs copies of his new book; and Dave Goelz, Bill Barretta, and Leslie Carrara-Rudolph join us for a special tribute to Muppets Tonight and Arthur Novell. 

EXHIBITION HIGHLIGHT

Horrible Sites: Makeup and Production Design for The Exorcist
On view in Behind the Screen

Widely considered one of the scariest movies ever made, The Exorcist has shocked and fascinated generations of viewers since its release in 1973. With material drawn from MoMI’s permanent collection, this exhibit explores the film’s production and makeup design, detailing how a stylish townhouse in Georgetown, Washington, D.C., and an innocent young girl were transformed into sites of horror. Related: catch a screening of The Exorcist later this month!

OPPORTUNITIES AT MoMI

Applications for the 2026–2027 Teen Council Program are now open!  Teen Council is a job development program for NYC teens interested in the media arts who want a behind-the-scenes look at how a media museum works. Members curate and program public events for youth, including film festivals, media workshops, and more.

Seeking vendors for the first MoMI Merch Meet on Saturday, November 22! Are you a local maker whose work—including art, hats, shirts, buttons, jewelry, toys, zines, comics, housewares, and more—showcases creative expressions of love for the moving image? Learn more and inquire here.

NOW SHOWING

Handcrafted Horrors
October 3–31

The history of cinematic horror is also a history of practical effects. The best films of the genre have classically found ways to visualize the impossible using ingenious on-set tricks and treats, hand-drawn animation, and makeup. This Halloween season, we’re pleased to present a buffet of monster-pieces, including The Creature from the Black Lagoon (presented in 3-D!), Carnival of Souls, Fantasia, Faust, The Exorcist, Nosferatu with live musical accompaniment, Bram Stoker's Dracula, and more.

Check out the series trailer!

The Creature from the Black Lagoon in 3-D
Saturday, October 3, 1:00 p.m.

Beloved for its brilliantly designed monster, as well as for its trailblazing use of 3-D, Jack Arnold's Creature from the Black Lagoon remains a touchstone of Hollywood horror.

Part of Handcrafted Horrors

Carnival of Souls
Saturday, October 3, 3:00 p.m.

One of the greatest low-budget American creepshows ever made, Herk Harvey's maximally eerie trip into the surreal has proven wildly influential—and unforgettable to anyone who has surrendered to its peculiar powers. 

Part of Handcrafted Horrors

Inland Empire
Friday, October 2, 6:30 p.m.

In David Lynch's masterful, surreal final film, an actress (Laura Dern) plunges into Hollywood’s seedy underbelly, attempting her comeback in a cursed production.

Part of Reverse Shot Presents, free for MoMI members

NYFF at MoMI
October 4–9

MoMI will again partner with Film at Lincoln Center to present New York Film Festival screenings at the Museum. Advance tickets are sold out, but standby tickets may become available at the door on the day of each event. 

FREE OPEN WORLDS EVENTS
Lead Supporter: William Fox, Jr. Foundation. Open Worlds: Science programs are supported by the Simons Foundation.

Spin Series: Latin Listen
Saturday, Oct. 3, 12:00–5:00 p.m.

A Hispanic Heritage Month edition of our ongoing series, for this six-hour celebration of rhythm, movement, and sound, three DJs will take over the Museum courtyard, moving across salsa, reggaeton, Latin funk, cumbia, Afro-Latin sounds, and the musical connections between them. 

Life Masks in Cinema
Sunday, Oct. 4, 1:00 p.m.

Join pop culture historian and collector Mike Drake for an engaging presentation exploring the history of life masks in film, how they are made, and the surprising ways they continue to be used today. 

Free with RSVP. One lucky attendee will receive a life mask to take home and begin their own cinematic collection. 

Fall Yoga with The Yoga Room
Sundays, October 4, 11, 18, at 11:15 a.m. (doors open at 11:00)

Join local studio The Yoga Room for a free one-hour class indoors at the Museum. Stick around after the class to enjoy a treat from the Mon Amour Café in the lobby or visit the Museum galleries.

Free with RSVP

Internet Walk
Saturday, Oct. 10, 1:00–2:30 p.m.

Ingrid Burrington, author of Networks of New York, will lead a free hour-long tour around Astoria focused on the tangible infrastructure of the networked world. Prior to the walk, Burrington will sign copies of a revised edition of her book. 

Free with RSVP

MoMI LAB PROGRAMS

Phone-Free Friday
Most Fridays, Oct. 2–Dec. 11

MoMI invites visitors to experience the Museum with a little less distraction. Every Friday from October 2 through December 11 (with the exception of Nov. 27), guests who check their smartphones at the door will receive 50% off general admission. Presented in partnership with Light.
 

Free Yourself from Big Tech

MoMI LAB, the Museum’s free public space for emerging technology and culture, continues to offer demonstrations, workshops, and tours. On Oct. 2: Phone-Free Fridays kicks off with the free workshop Free Yourself from Big Tech, a practical workshop for taking back control of your digital life, followed by a reception. Free with RSVP

COMING SOON

The Adventures of Prince Achmed (35mm)—100th Anniversary
Saturday, October 10, 1:00 p.m.

The 1926 feature-length animated feature from Lotte Reiniger will be presented in 35mm with live musical accompaniment by Charlie Judkins and preceded by a lecture by Whitney Grace, author of Lotte Reiniger: Pioneer of Film Animation.

Part of World of Animation, free for MoMI members

In the Mouth of Madness (35mm)
Saturday, October 10, 3:30 p.m.

John Carpenter’s metacinematic tribute to the nightmarish underworlds of H. P. Lovecraft stars Sam Neill as a John Trent, a mild-mannered insurance investigator who gradually descends into hysteria while seeking the whereabouts of a cult writer who has gone missing.

Part of Handcrafted Horrors

Two “Films Maudit” with J. Hoberman
Sunday, October 11

Critic and author J. Hoberman presents Richard Kelly’s multi-verse political comic book saga Southland Tales (35mm) and Michael Powell’s meta-slasher Peeping Tom, two titles that were loathed upon their respective premieres in 2006 and 1960, but which have benefited considerably from appreciation in the rear-view mirror. With book signing.

Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Freedom
Sunday, October 11, 6:30 p.m
Monday, October 12, 1:00 p.m.

MoMI is pleased to present special screenings of Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Freedom in collaboration with Bandai Namco Filmworks during New York Comic Con. The Sunday screening will be preceded by a conversation with producer Kaori Shida. Tickets on sale October 1.

Part of World of Animation, free for MoMI Members

MoMI members can purchase $7 tickets for regular screenings (a more than 50% discount!) and receive free tickets to many films each month and free gallery admission. Become a member today!

Muppets Tonight: A 30th Anniversary Panel and Tribute to Arthur Novell
With Dave Goelz, Bill Barretta, and Leslie Carrara-Rudolph
Monday, October 12, 1:00 p.m.

As we celebrate 50 years of The Muppet Show, we also mark the 30th anniversary of the 1996 premiere of Muppets Tonight, the show that brought the Muppets back to TV for a whole new audience, with a new group of guest stars. Please join MoMI and special guests to celebrate Muppets Tonight and Arthur Novell. Part of Jim Henson's World, free for MoMI members.

And don't forget these offers and amenities:
 * Free gallery hours every Thursday, 2:00–6:00 p.m.
 * Friday Date Night: bring your sweetie or friend to MoMI with this special deal.
 * Take a break at Mon Amour Coffee & Wine in our lobby.
 * Open Worlds: free access to our ground-floor spaces during Museum hours.

REVERSE SHOT AND SLOAN SCIENCE & FILM

Reverse Shot Review:
Paper Tiger

The opening night selection of the 2026 New York Film Festival, James Gray’s Paper Tiger is, according to Michael Koresky, the Queens-born filmmaker's "deftest and most moving film yet about how the assumptions Americans are fed about our ability to transcend class and economic standing are more quicksand than bedrock." Starring Adam Driver, Scarlett Johansson, and Miles Teller.

Read the review here.

Sloan Science and Film:
Director Interview—Katharina Rabl’s Memories of a Forest

Katharina Rabl’s Memories of a Forest, which made its international premiere at the 2026 Toronto International Film Festival, follows a woman returning to her home village where she must contend with the gift, but also the issues, of her newly inherited forest. We spoke with Rabl the day of the film’s TIFF premiere about the role of the forest in her home country and the research she did for the film.

Read the interview here.

MoMI acknlowledges the following programmatic and institutional support:

Overexposed: Art, Technology, and the Body: Lead support was provided by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts. Additional generous support was provided by Romy Cohen, The Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, Elaine Goldman, May & Samuel Rudin Family Foundation, and Doug Pugh.

Open Worlds 2026: Programmatic support provided by New York City Council, NYC Department of Cultural Affairs, Bank of America, the William Fox, Jr. Foundation, New York State Council on the Arts, and the Office of the Queens Borough President Donovan Richards. Open Worlds: Science programs supported by the Simons Foundation.

Public Support: The Museum gratefully acknowledges the leadership and assistance of: Mayor Zohran Mamdani; Queens Borough President Donovan Richards, Jr.; Speaker of the New York City Council Julie Menin; the entire Queens delegation of the New York City Council; Commissioner of the NYC Department of Cultural Affairs Diya Vij; Governor Kathy Hochul; New York State Senator Michael N. Gianaris; New York State Senator Kristen Gonzalez; New York Assemblymember Diana Moreno; Senator Chuck Schumer; Senator Kirsten Gillibrand; Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez; Dormitory Authority of New York State; New York City Department of Cultural Affairs; New York City Department of Citywide Administrative Services; Regional Economic Development Council.