UID:630 | 2026-09-30 | "Wendy's Subway" <info@wendyssubway.com> | Wendy's Subway is seeking an Editorial Fellow!

Apply by October 23.

Application deadline: October 23, 2026

Wendy’s Subway is seeking an Editorial Fellow to join our team in 2027. The Editorial Fellowship at Wendy’s Subway offers hands-on training, mentorship, and professional development in the field to an emerging arts/literary editor. The Editorial Fellow will work closely with our small and dedicated editorial team to gain in-depth editorial and book-making experience.

Publishing at Wendy’s Subway takes on various forms as we work closely with writers, artists, educators, collectives, and organizations to bring their work into print. Our program prioritizes practices that surface—with singular awareness—experiences, social histories, and political urgencies past and present, with a focus on literatures and voices that bring new poetic, experimental, and improvisational choreographies of language and life to the fore.

We publish around 10 titles annually as part of our interdisciplinary publishing program, which includes the Document Series (hybrid-genre artist’s books highlighting time-based artists); the Passage Series (for emerging writers working in cross-genre poetic forms); Distal (non-Anglophone writing in translation); as well as artists’ books, co-publications, poetry chapbooks, and zines. 

Duration: January 18–December 13, 2027 (12 months, or 42 weeks, including holidays)
Commitment: 2 days/week (approx. 15 hours)
Location: On-site, with occasional remote work
Honorarium: $11,000

Learn more and apply here

Questions? Email jobs@wendyssubway.com.

Wendy’s Subway is a non-profit reading room, writing space, and independent publisher located in Bushwick, Brooklyn. We support emerging artists and writers in making experimental, urgent work and create alternative modes for learning and thinking in community. Wendy’s Subway is dedicated to encouraging creative, critical, and discursive engagement with arts and literature.

Our interdisciplinary programs offer free readings, talks, performances, and reading groups, as well as sliding-scale workshops and courses. Our multiseries publishing initiative includes works in translation, artists' books, poetic texts, and hybrid-genre works by time-based artists. Our non-circulating library holds a collection of over 5,000 titles, with a focus on international independent publishing, art and artists’ books, poetry, theory, and criticism.

To become a member, make book donations, or ask a question, email: info@wendyssubway.com.

For more information visit: wendyssubway.com.