UID:633 | 2026-10-01 | "Verso Books" <verso@versobooks.com> | 📚 Our new edition of Walter Rodney's How Europe Underdeveloped Africa features a foreword from Angela Davis and a newly corrected manuscript 📚

Plus: Don't miss Catherine Liu's unflinching new examination of trauma and the politics of victimhood

“If Walter Rodney’s assassins were under the impression that they could arrest the flow of his ideas by destroying his body, they could not have been more wrong.”— Angela Davis

In his short life, the Guyanese intellectual Walter Rodney emerged as one of the leading thinkers and activists of the anti-colonial revolution. We are proud to publish a new edition of his seminal work, How Europe Underdeveloped Africa.

Typographical errors of the previous edition have been corrected, and the entire text has been rigorously fact-checked to create an edition that supersedes the original, doing justice to the legacy and fulfilling the intentions of a groundbreaking pan-Africanist and Marxist historian.

Shop books by Walter Rodney

Praise for Catherine Liu's Traumatized

Traumatized
The New Politics of Public Suffering
by Catherine Liu

"If it were up to me, we’d have cultural theorists lounging on late-night talk-show couches, sermonizing late into the night across from Jimmy Fallon. Liu would be a great first pick — funny, wickedly brilliant and savvy...[Traumatized] is an ambitious examination of the ways trauma and pain have become social capital, exploited in ways that ultimately serve neither the traumatized nor the public. Reading the book feels refreshing — a clarifying antidote to a culture increasingly obsessed with idolizing and leveraging suffering." – LA Times

On the Verso Blog:

Watch: Adom Getachew on Walter Rodney's Legacy

Political scientist and co-editor of Verso's Southern Questions series Adom Getachew discusses the everlasting importance of Walter Rodney's works.

Watch on the Verso Blog

Yemen Is Back in the Headlines

Houthi strikes on Saudi oil tankers have rekindled international interest in Yemen’s forgotten war. Regional expert Helen Lackner, author of Yemen in Crisis, brings us up to date.

Read more on the Verso Blog

No longer want to receive these emails?