UID:635 | 2026-10-01 | "Printed Matter" <news@printedmatter.org> | Thank You for Joining Us at NYABF 2026!

THANK YOU FOR JOINING US AT NYABF 2026!

The 2026 NY Art Book Fair was especially meaningful as Printed Matter continues to celebrate its 50th anniversary and marked the 20th anniversary of the Fair. Over 300 exhibitors from 41 countries across six continents brought books, zines, posters, rare editions, and more, forming our most geographically diverse group of exhibitors to date. The Stage, The Classroom, and the Reading Room came alive with book launches, lectures, and performances, alongside exhibitions and workshops throughout the Fair.

We’re grateful to the MoMA PS1 and the Fair staff for their care and dedication, and to the panelists, musicians, and program hosts who shared their work and ideas. To every exhibitor, artist, publisher, speaker, performer, and the thousands of visitors and artists’ book lovers who joined us: Thank you for celebrating with us!

 

WE’D LOVE YOUR FEEDBACK!

Thank you for joining us at MoMA PS1 for the 20th anniversary of our NY Art Book Fair! We’d love to hear about your experience. Click the button below to start the survey.

2026 NY Art Book Fair Visitor Survey

 

2026 NY ART BOOK FAIR STAFF

Maia Asshaq — Director of Fairs & Editions

Sanjana Iyer — Fairs & Editions Coordinator

sgp — Fairs & Editions Associate

Claire Dauge-Roth — Head of Exhibitor Services

Camila Pernisco – Head of Visitor Services

Mallie Sanford — Head of Installation

Emmy Catedral – Organizer of The Classroom

Elijah Jackson – The Classroom Assistant

Lydo Le – Stage Curator

Kathleen Sleboda and Christopher Sleboda – Head of Design & Print Production

Chloe Luterman – Fairs Intern

Support

Printed Matter thanks its current funders: The A G Foundation, The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, Cowles Charitable Trust, The David Rockefeller Fund*, The Fox Aarons Foundation, Frances and Benjamin Benenson Foundation, the Helen Frankenthaler Foundation*, The Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation, The Milton and Sally Avery Arts Foundation, Pat Steir Foundation, Wagner Foundation, Walter and Karla Goldschmidt Foundation, The Windfall Fund, the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs, and the New York State Council on the Arts. We are also grateful to the Printed Matter Board of Directors, our NYABF Committee, our Members, and individuals worldwide for their support. For a complete list of our supporters, or to make a tax-deductible contribution, please visit printedmatter.org/support.

*Courtesy of The Collaborative Arts Network New York (CANNY) 

Special Thanks:

Printed Matter would like to extend deep gratitude to Shelley Fox Aarons & Philip Aarons, Arison Arts Foundation, Elyse & Lawrence Benenson, AA Bronson & Michael Tims, Kathy Fuld, Alexandra Grant, Richard Grosbard, Jeff Gutterman, Susan Harris, Tom Healy & Fred P. Hochberg, Jennifer Levitt, PhotoSouthAsia/Vasant Nayak, Nancy Olnick and Giorgio Spanu, David Solo, Stardust Arts, Leo Villareal & Yvonne Force Villareal, and Julie Wolfe.

Additional thanks to the entire dedicated staff of MoMA PS1. We are especially grateful to Jeffrey Akwei, Philip Brand, Connie Butler, Gillian Burz, Andrew Cone, Lauren DiLoreto, Molly Kurzius, Jack Radley, Nick Scavo, Daniel Schaeffer, Zachary Taube, Aimes Vasquez, Richard Wilson, and DeVonn Francis and the team at Symone for their attention and support during this production. Special thanks to Emmy Catedral, Elijah Jackson, and Lydo Le. Printed Matter is deeply thankful to Nike and the members of our NYABF Committee for their support of the Volume Grant and to Are.na for their contribution to the Shannon Michael Cane Award. Thank you to the Shannon Michael Cane Award committee and to the Volume Grant committee; Neta Bomani, Sarah Elawad, and Leila Louhaichy. Special thanks to artist Sara Yukiko, for her generous contributions to Printed Matter's ticket edition. Thank you to our Fair partners and in-kind sponsors. A very special thanks to Printed Matter's Board of Directors for their participation and support.

Printed Matter, Inc.

Printed Matter, Inc. is an independent 501(c)3 non-profit organization founded in 1976 by artists and art workers with the mission to foster the distribution, understanding, and appreciation of artists’ books and related artists’ publications.

 

THE 2026 NY ART BOOK FAIR IS GENEROUSLY SUPPORTED BY:

Browse our catalog   ●   Become a member   ●   Make a donation

Printed Matter, Inc.
Printed Matter, Inc. is an independent 501(c)3 non-profit organization founded in 1976 by artists and art workers with the mission to foster the appreciation, dissemination, and understanding of artists’ books and other artists’ publications.

 

Printed Matter’s bookstore is wheelchair accessible.

Printed Matter, Inc.
231 11th Ave

New York, NY 10001
www.printedmatter.org
www.pmabf.org

T: 212 925 0325