UID:644 | 2026-10-01 | "Rockaway Film Festival" <hello@rockawayfilmfestival.org> | This weekend: Beach Sessions Presents + The Adventures of Prince Achmed with Live Score and Shadow Puppet Show

Join us for our last outdoor screening of the season this Saturday, featuring an original shadow puppet and live musical accompaniment.

This weekend:

Beach Sessions Presents: Dance + Cinema
Friday, October 2 at 8:00 pm
Arverne Cinema Inside

Guest-curated by New York–based choreographer and artist Alexa West, this screening brings together cinematic dance scenes — from iconic Hollywood films to perfume ads and music videos — that have shaped her work, including “Amusement,” her latest commission for Beach Sessions Dance Series.

Introduced by Alexa West. Free!
 

Tickets

 

Live Score: The Adventures of Prince Achmed + Shadow Puppet Show
Saturday, October 3 at 7:00 pm
Arverne Cinema Outside

For our last outdoor screening of the season, we present Lotte Reiniger’s sublime animated fairytale on its 100-year anniversary. Considered to be the earliest feature-length animation, it is composed of intricate hand-cut figures and landscapes lit from behind to create dazzling silhouettes. Drawing on tales from One Thousand and One Nights, the film follows Prince Achmed and his magical flying horse through a series of wondrous adventures. 

Screening with live, original accompaniment by Order of the Illusive. Puppet duo Broken Toys will open the film with a new shadow play drawing on the history of Dead Horse Bay.

Doors at 6:30 pm with food by La Cevicheria. Screening and performance at 7:00 pm.
 

Tickets

 

Coming up:

Local Filmmakers' Showcase
Saturday, October 10 at 5:00 pm
Arverne Cinema Inside

Our annual celebration of new work by Rockaway-based filmmakers featuring Kaia Abraham, Artie Brennan, Jakob Daschek, Kiernan Richard Doyle, Kevin Gregory, Emma Hastil, Trudy Knockless, Katherine Kordaris, Lazarus, Phil Rodriguez, Keith Roenke, Sahar Sedaghat, Allison Sheriff, and Barrett Lesly Shuler.

Post-screening conversation with filmmakers. Free!
 

Tickets

Arverne Cinema 72-02 Gouverneur Ave, Arverne, NY 11692
rockawayfilmfestival.org