UID:647 | 2026-10-01 | "Data & Society" <info@datasociety.net> | Why we’re turning a worker lens on the AI economy, what it takes to make AI seem inevitable, the humanism driving the anti-AI movement

October 1, 2026

AROUND THE INSTITUTE

 

Why We Are Turning a Worker Lens on the AI Economy

Today we’re excited to launch Worker Lens on the AI Economy: a timely and ambitious new research project that will foreground workers’ experiences with and perspectives on AI, and identify opportunities to expand their power. While AI companies have made it clear that their value proposition lies in using AI to replace human labor, AI’s actual impacts on work have been messy and uneven, varying from one industry to the next and even among workers in the same field. Many current studies about AI and work rely on limited data sources and unproven assumptions, and they measure AI in isolation from the workplaces, management decisions, and social contexts in which they’re embedded. The result is a fractured understanding of AI’s overall consequences for workers and their relative power in the economy.

We're interested in how AI is changing the very nature of what work is, and in the structural, social, political, and economic changes that affect not just everyday working conditions but broader issues of democratic power, human dignity, and the public good. As Labor Futures Program Director Aiha Nguyen and Researcher Alexandra Mateescu, who will lead the new project, write on Points, “Understanding how AI is changing labor and employment requires a different kind of research: rigorous, independent, and timely documentation and analysis of what is happening on the ground and in communities where people live and work.” By focusing on workers’ experiences, we aim to develop a more nuanced picture of what's happening and build a more collective response to the AI industry — one where workers are not a passive casualty of AI, but active participants in determining its role. Read the announcement. And for more updates as the project gets underway, subscribe to our Future of Labor newsletter.

Plus: In Last Place in the AI-First Economy: How the AI Industry Relies on Worker Disempowerment, Mateescu, Nguyen, and D&S affiliate Sanjay Pinto argue that the sprint to create the so-called AI-first economy must be understood not as the logical march of progress, but as a series of deliberate economic decisions that risk harming entire populations of workers in ways both old and new.

HOW DATA CENTER FIGHTS ARE RENEWING LOCAL POWER ACROSS THE US

Full video of our sold-out Climate Week NYC event with the Pulitzer Center, focused on data centers and local power, is now available. In a conversation moderated by Kit R. Roane, senior producer at Retro Report; Maia Woluchem, director of D&S's Trustworthy Infrastructure program; Alejandra Martinez, environmental reporter at The Texas Tribune and Pulitzer Center grantee; Brian Crawford, a Texas resident with Protect the Paluxy Valley Inc; and Virginia Marcille-Kerslake, a Pennsylvania resident and senior organizer at Food and Water Watch discussed what the facts on the ground might mean for the future. Watch and share!

Plus: In a new video for our report The AI Factory: Data Centers, Power, and Resistance in Late Industrial Pennsylvania Maia Woluchem describes her team’s research on Pennsylvania’s industrial lineage, the mythmaking that builds on it, and the pushback that defines this moment. “We learned that it takes a lot of work to make an AI factory seem inevitable,” she says. Watch the video on Instagram!

And: In Anthropology News, researchers Ana Carolina de Assis Nunes and Livia Garofalo reflect on the experience of doing fieldwork that explores the myths and realities of data center investment and expansion as the United States celebrates the 250th anniversary of its independence. “As we study a pivotal moment in American history, our approach also prompts us to reckon with the stories we tell about our own discipline, who gets to practice it, and how,” they write.

Also: Tomorrow, October 2, catch the livestream of the Community-Centered AI Infrastructure Summit to explore the opportunities, challenges, and governance of AI infrastructure development in Pennsylvania. It’s hosted at Carnegie Mellon University in partnership with Data & Society, the Center for Coalfield Justice, and the Pennsylvania Climate Equity Table. RSVP to join us online.

OCTOBER 7: POWER AND RESISTANCE IN THE AGE OF TECH OLIGARCHY

In Silicon Valley, economic, political, and state power have fused, and tech oligarchs like Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg are reshaping the world in their image. Two new books examine this decades-long trajectory from very different angles: In Muskism: A Guide for the Perplexed, Quinn Slobodian and Ben Tarnoff explore how figures like Musk embody a social system where technological infrastructure — from satellites to social media platforms — pave the road to a “freedom” rooted in reactionary geopolitics and racial hierarchies enforced by militarized violence. In Against Tech Oligarchy: Worker Resistance in the World’s Most Powerful Industry, JS Tan and Clarissa Redwine write about how many tech workers were attracted to the industry by a different kind of freedom, one that promised a more connected and democratic world. While in recent years this façade has crumbled, the authors show how the “dry kindling” that both set off and consumed tech workers’ collective action against oligarchic powers had been present in Silicon Valley all along. On October 7 at 2 p.m. ET, join Slobodian, Tan, and Redwine as they discuss the structural forces shaping tech and state power, and what lessons we can draw from the tech worker movement for building a different future, in a conversation moderated by Aiha Nguyen, director of Data & Society’s Labor Futures program. Learn more and RSVP to join us online.

Plus: In Dissent, JS Tan and Clarissa Redwine write about the decline of workplace organizing in the tech sector and the need to reboot the tech worker movement. That movement “must transform into a project that aspires to build an effective counterpower, and challenge an industry that now stands on the same side as an increasingly authoritarian state,” they write.

And: In a live, sold-out recording of the Tech Policy Press podcast, Gil Durán, author of The Nerd Reich: Silicon Valley Fascism and the War on Democracy, and D&S Director of Research Alice Marwick talk about technology, ideology, and power. "The technology itself is not the problem,” Marwick says. “It's the people who own the technology, the way the technology is being developed and the way the technology is being controlled by a tiny group of people." Listen now!

FIELD NOTES

 

MIND THE AI POLICYMAKING GAP

With leaders from top AI companies calling for the slowdown of AI advancement and a need for government oversight, what we’ve heard from global governments is largely a mix of hesitation and confusion. In The New York Times, Adam Satariano and Cecilia Kang underscore governments' lack of urgency in regulating the technology, including by those leading its development: the US and China. “AI has made the gap between policymaking and technology one of the widest ever,” they write. “What’s left is a policy vacuum, with AI companies such as Anthropic and OpenAI largely left to police themselves.” The geopolitics of AI have become something of a game of chicken, as countries attempt (or fail) to weigh current harms and risks of AI against fears that stronger regulation could hurt innovation or cause them to surrender ground to their global competitors. This disconnect extends from lawmakers on both sides of the aisle in the US to policymakers across the European Commission and the UK Parliament. Part of the problem is a mismatched ability to respond to serious issues in real time, as Darren Jones, a member of Britain’s Parliament, explains: “Institutionally, we’re not set up to keep up with the pace of development.” Also in the Times, Catie Edmondson, Matt Zdun and Daniel Wood report on how groups aligned with Anthropic and OpenAI are spending millions of dollars in an effort to influence the US midterm elections.

Plus: Barron’s reports on the EU’s approach to regulating AI. With a cross-party group of European parliamentarians calling for strengthening liability strictures on AI products, D&S Executive Director Janet Haven notes that “[f]ines can’t deter powerful companies, but they are terrified of product liability.”

THE HUMANISM DRIVING THE ANTI-AI MOVEMENT

In The New Yorker, Becca Rothfield reports from the Pro-Human Assembly in Washington, DC, a big-tent AI-critical gathering organized by the Future of Life Institute that featured both Bernie Sanders and Steve Bannon. While panels included labor organizers warning that AI would undermine workers and parents of children who were harmed by interactions with chatbots, among the attendees Rothfield spoke to, “going concerns were not about matters of policy as much as they were about matters of philosophy”: in other words, the technology’s impact on freedom, consciousness, and creativity. “The various pro-humans were not only alarmed by the differentials in wealth and power that AI has consolidated and reinforced, the noise pollution that data centers emit, and the dismaying prospect of human extinction (though these difficulties concerned them, too),” Rothfield writes. They were also worried about “how AI alters the texture of daily experience” and what would be left “if the technology worked as planned” and rendered many human pursuits “pointless.” As necessary as regulation and guardrails are, Rothfield points out that those interventions don’t touch the fundamental questions that are driving so many of the deeper critiques of, and opposition to, AI.

BREAKTHROUGH OR BUST

As we continue to hear about the seemingly fantastical feats AI can accomplish that humans cannot, what does it mean to say that “AI made” a scientific discovery? In the MIT Technology Review, James O’Donnell argues that industry narratives are leading people to give AI more credit than it deserves. When AI is used to solve complex math problems or identify new gene patterns, for example, these achievements can be more accurately understood as examples of AI aiding scientists, as they have long relied on other tools to do. “[T]he result itself may not constitute a breakthrough for science,” O’Donnell  writes. “What is novel for AI may be routine, unsurprising, or simply not that consequential to a biologist.” But rather than positioning AI systems simply as tools scientists can use, companies insist the systems are making discoveries themselves, an approach that to some “is incompatible with how science actually works, with new knowledge more typically emerging from collaboration and an ever-growing arsenal of tools.” Another side effect of AI’s incursion into scientific research, O’Donnell notes: people are more skeptical of genuine progress when it happens. 

Plus: In a series of essays Points, AI on the Ground Program Director Ranjit Singh explores how AI systems are being taken up in scientific practice.

NETWORK EVENTS

 

October 6, 2026

Life After Data: The Conference on De-Datafication

Georgetown Law Center

October 7, 2026

AI and Immigration Policy Conference

NYU Wagner

Was this email forwarded to you?

SUBSCRIBE TO THIS NEWSLETTER

For more information, visit datasociety.net.

Graphic by Gloria Mendoza; illustration by Jamillah Knowles & Digit /  /

This newsletter is curated with support from Eryn Loeb, Surbhi Chawla, Katherine Heidecke, and Sona Rai.

Data & Society studies the social implications of data-centric technologies, automation, and AI.