UID:656 | 2026-10-02 | "Wave Farm + WGXC 90.7-FM" <info@wavefarm.org> | Wave Farm News October 2026

Artists-in-Residence, 2027 Open Call, Wave Farm Yard Sale, Special Events & Broadcasts!
View this email in your browser

News for October 2026 

Autumn has arrived in the Hudson Valley! We hope everyone has been staying warm and dry and listening to good sounds, wherever you might be. This month, we're very excited to have Radio Art Fellow Elisa Harkins in residence until October 7th, and our inaugural Spatial Artist-in-Residence Qiujiang Levi Lu at Wave Farm from the 19th through the 28th. Come see us at Verbatim Text Sound Expo this Friday and Saturday, tune in to a live conversation between Harkins and Gregory Whitehead on October 6th, and join us in the Catskill Studio for a live broadcast Artist Talk from Lu on the October 24th. And, applications for our 2027 season of residencies and fellowships are open now through December 1st! 

Turn out for our Local Waves events this month––on October 14th we'll be at The Local with featured local musician Nic Panken, and on October 29th we'll be gathering for our closing edition of Breaking the Algorithm IRL at the Avalon Lounge, featuring a discussion with Liam Singer and DJ set by Laura Singer. Stay tuned for more ways to break the algorithm with us this spring, and you can continue to tune in to Local Waves in Conversation every 1st Thursday at 10am and 2nd Friday at 8pm.

We've got a full schedule of events in Catskill coming up. Qiujiang Levi Lu in the studio on the 24th, works-in-progress from Andrea Kleine on the 23rd, and there are still a few spots left in our October 17th and November 7th audio workshops in the Catskill Studio. Plus, we're having a yard sale! Come on by the studio on Main Street on Saturday, October 10th for some rare finds and useful gear. 

Keep your ears open for this month's Radio Roaming episode airing on October 10th and 27th, featuring Maryanne Amacher's City Links and Sound Characters. And, we've got a new broadcast time for Meant to Ferment, and many new tracks in the Local Waves library. 

ANNOUNCEMENTS

2027 Open Call: Research and Production Program

Wave Farm welcomes proposals from artists, researchers, and tinkerers for up to 6 open call research and production opportunities in 2027. The transmission art residency supports the development of new transmission artwork. The spatial sound residency specifically supports the development of transmission artwork for a spatial sound environment. The fellowship program offers two different tracks: research and community engagement. Apply by December 1, 2026 at 11:59 p.m. EST.

Qiujiang Levi Lu
Wave Farm Spatial Artist-In-Residence

In residence from October 19th through 28th, Qiujiang Levi Lu 卢秋江 will work on Tangible Soundscape, a spatial sound installation and compositional experiment that redefines magnetic tape as a two-dimensional recording surface. Instead of treating tape as a linear medium that stores sound in a single forward-moving direction, Lu works with it as spatial material that can be cut, shaped, arranged, and drawn across a flat plane. 

WORKSHOPS

EVENTS

Wave Farm Yard Sale 
October 10th, 2026: 12pm - 4pm
WGXC Studio, Catskill, NY

Wave Farm is having a Yard Sale! Turn out to the Catskill Studio for some rare finds and useful gear––we'll have radios, computer speakers, electrical strips, walkie talkies, keyboards, furniture, audio toys and gadgets, and more! 

(( LOCAL WAVES )) at The Local: Nic Panken
October 14th, 2026: 7:30 pm - 10pm
The Local, Saugerties, NY

A monthly series focused on original local music! Presented every 2nd Wednesday by The Local, curated by Chosen Family Presents, and broadcast by Wave Farm's WGXC 90.7-FM. This month's event features Nic Panken. 

Qiujiang Levi Lu: Artist Talk Live Broadcast
Oct 24, 2026: 2pm - 3pm
WGXC Studio, Catskill, NY 

Join us in the WGXC Catskill Studio on Saturday, October 24th from 2pm to 3pm for an Artist Talk and Live Broadcast from Wave Farm's inaugural Spatial Artist-in-Residence, Qiujiang Levi Lu. Lu is an experimental musician, media artist, and composer whose work explores the body as a site of sonic transformation. Through custom electroacoustic instruments, feedback systems, and cyborg-like bodily augmentations, Lu creates performances and installations that merge ritual, noise, intimacy, and embodied technology.

Breaking the Algorithm IRL: Liam and Laura Singer
October 29, 2026: 7pm - 9pm
Avalon Lounge, Catskill, NY
 
Turn out on Thursday, October 29th at 7pm Upstairs at the Avalon Lounge for our closing edition of “Breaking the Algorithm IRL"! This month’s event features the Avalon's very own Liam Singer in conversation with Mike Amari, and Laura Singer DJ-ing. Entry by donation!

SPECIAL BROADCASTS

Elisa Harkins in conversation with Gregory Whitehead
October 6, 2026: 3pm - 4pm
Wave Farm Radio: WGXC90.7-FM

Tune in a conversation between Wave Farm Radio Art Research Fellow Elisa Harkins and Fellowship Mentor Gregory Whitehead broadcast live from the WGXC Catskill Studio. 

Radio Roaming: Maryanne Amacher's City Links and Sound Characters
October 10 & October 27, 2026: 3pm - 4pm
Wave Farm Radio: WGXC 90.7-FM

This episode of "Radio Roaming" features two works by Maryanne Amacher. City-Links was a series of works that Amacher developed throughout her career, beginning in 1967 with a 28 hour broadcasting of a live mix of eight channel recorded on location in Buffalo, NY. Sound Characters is a collection of electronic soundscapes and "ear-dances" that Amacher compiled for Tzadik Records in 1999, intended for the more intimate setting of compact disc.

NEW TO WGXC

WGXC Schedule Change! Tune in to Meant to Ferment this Monday October 5th from 11am to 12pm, and from then on every first Saturday of the month from 3pm to 4pm! (And, in case you missed it––listen here to a special interview with Atina Foods on their new TV show "Married with Beans.")

This month the Local Waves initiative received 130+ tracks from 20 new releases by local artists to add to rotation! From Classic punk to Thriller inspired soul-funk…check out monthly roundup of the new additions from Mike Amari of Chosen Family Presents here. And listen to Local Waves every Thursday 10AM and Friday 8PM on WGXC!

FROM OUR FRIENDS

Andrea Kleine: Incubations (3 works-in-progress)
October 23, 2026: 7pm- 8pm
WGXC Studio, Catskill, NY 

Incubations is an evening of three works-in-progress by writer/performance artist/filmmaker Andrea Kleine, featuring music by Bobby Previte on a 1980s synthesizer he found at the dump. This event is Pay What You Wish; suggested donation of $10 to support Wave Farm Radio: WGXC 90.7-FM.

Your Support Makes Wave Farm Possible!

Wave Farm is committed to making the airwaves a participatory medium. We are an international transmission arts organization driven by experimentation with the electromagnetic spectrum. We cultivate creative practices in radio and support artists and nonprofits in their cultural endeavors.

These activities are made possible, in part, from state and federal art grants, foundation support, earned income derived from consulting services and curatorial engagements, and from private, tax-deductible, support from individuals like you.

Support from listeners, attendees, and collaborators provides a critical piece to keeping Wave Farm programs afloat, especially WGXC 90.7-FM Radio for Open Ears, and we are grateful to the many individuals who have shown their generosity past, present, and future.

Support Wave Farm