UID:660 | 2026-10-02 | "MoMI Film" <info@movingimage.org> | Handcrafted Horrors kicks off spooky season with classic Carnival of Souls on Saturday

Film Highlight, October 10, 2026

View this email in your browser

FILM HIGHLIGHT | October 2, 2026

Carnival of Souls

This Halloween season, we want to remind movie lovers that the history of cinematic horror is also a history of practical effects. The best films of the genre have classically found ways to visualize the impossible using ingenious, on-set tricks and treats. We’re pleased to present a buffet of monster-pieces that all revel in the tactile, using models, puppets, makeup artistry, or hand-drawn animation to create their surreal, physical other worlds—or to heighten the surreality of our known universe.

Our new series Handcrafted Horrors kicks off this weekend, and one of our first titles is one of the greatest low-budget American creepshows ever made. Carnival of Souls, Herk Harvey’s maximally eerie trip into the surreal, has proven wildly influential—and unforgettable to anyone who has surrendered to its peculiar powers. Candace Hilligloss plays a woman who descends into a twilight netherworld after surviving a car accident in her tiny Kansas town. Haunted by the image of a nightmarish specter pursuing her, she begins to question her sanity. Memorably shot around the midwestern environs of wide-open stretches of land and abandoned amusement parks, this B-movie cult classic is a macabre masterpiece that always makes it feel like it’s 3:00 a.m., no matter what time you watch it.

See Carnival of Souls this Saturday, October 3 at 3:00 p.m.

Get tickets

See the full lineup for Handcrafted Horrors here! The series runs all month, ending on October 31. Watch the series trailer here.

MoMI members receive $7 tickets for regular screenings, free tickets to many films each month, and 25% off special screening tickets; plus unlimited free gallery admission. Become a member today!

NOW SHOWING

Friday, October 2
6:30 p.m. Inland Empire (Reverse Shot Presents)

Saturday, October 3
1:00 p.m. The Creature from the Black Lagoon in 3-D (Handcrafted Horrors)
3:00 p.m. Carnival of Souls (Handcrafted Horrors)

Sunday, October 4
1:30 p.m. Once Upon a Time in Harlem – sold out / standby only (NYFF at MoMI)
3:45 p.m. Rose – sold out / standby only (NYFF at MoMI)

Next week: 100th anniversary screening of The Adventures of Prince Achmed with live musical accompaniment + introductory lecture; special NYCC screenings of Mobile Suite Gundam SEED Freedom with special guest; J. Hoberman introduces Peeping Tom and Southland Tales; and more See schedule.

Ticket policy: Tickets are required for each individual screening and are available in advance online or in person at the door. Please note that paid Museum admission includes a ticket to a regular same-day screening (if one is offered that day; does not apply to special screenings). When you check in at the front desk simply request a film ticket. Tickets are distributed first-come, first-served.

Please consider making a donation to MoMI. Everything we do is possible because of the generosity of you and the entire MoMI community! 

Forward