UID:665 | 2026-10-02 | "Amant" <amant@amant.org> | October at Amant

October at Amant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

OCTOBER 2026

  

Installation view of Sentient Earth, Amant, Brooklyn, NY. Photo: New Document.

  

ON VIEW THIS MONTH

  

Sentient Earth
Bernd & Hilla Becher, Bernadette Corporation, Nina Canell, Isaiah Davis, Simon Denny, Mark Dion, Eliza Evans, Rachel Fäth, Ignacio Gatica, Gabrielle L’Hirondelle Hill, Maren Karlson, John Kelsey, Clare Koury, Les Levine, Emil Martirosian, Hélio Melo, Mike Mosco, Jonathan Okoronkwo, Nohemí Pérez, Marina Pinsky, Monira Al Qadiri, Coumba Samba, Cauleen Smith, Nellie Stockbridge, Bernard Walsh, Yuyan Wang, Marina Xenofontos, and Liu Yujia

  
  

Matthew Lutz-Kinoy
The Mud Room: Itinerant Artists, Folk Spectacles, and Painted Walls

  

See Full Calendar →

  

This month extends the themes and celebrations from our Fall 2026 opening week and highlights the research and explorations of Amant’s current artists in residence.

Come by and visit exhibiting artist Matthew Lutz-Kinoy, who is producing new ceramic works in-situ for his exhibition The Mud Room with visiting artist Natsuko Uchino. The transformation of the space into a ceramic studio culminates in a performance on October 9, featuring both artists in collaboration with Zoli Kitchen. This special event is followed by a For Your Reference program with artist in residence Paul Maheke on Wednesday, October 14, an evening combining live reading, sound, and moving image.

  

Our galleries welcome visiting groups during the Open House New York Weekend from October 16–18, 2026. Our team will offer guided tours of both exhibitions, and GRT Architects will lead an architecture walkthrough of Zoli restaurant. Together with the Friends of Cooper Park, Amant’s presence extends beyond the campus that weekend: we are co-hosting the fifth annual Cooper Park Block Party on Saturday, October 17, a free community gathering that brings neighbors together to celebrate the fall season.

  

Sentient Earth’s public programming continues this month underground. Join us from 6–8 pm on Sunday, October 25 at Emmelines, located in the subway station at 53rd Street and 5th Avenue, to view Yuyan Wang's Look on the Bright Side (2023) for one night only. The film weaves together found footage to explore the pervasive influence of everlasting light across digital devices, artificial moons, LED factories, and subterranean tunnels.

  

Amant’s October calendar closes with resident artist Gary Zhexi Zhang’s performance lecture on Thursday, October 29 that centers on his experiments with autonomous actors staged within a self-directing game engine.

  

As always, attendance is free, and RSVPs are encouraged. Learn more about each program below.

Performance

DE LA FOURCHE AU FOUR À LA FOURCHETTE, BROKE THE PLATE: A CUISINE PERFORMANCE

  

Friday, October 9, 2026
7–9 pm
AZ, 306 Maujer

  

  

In celebration of Matthew Lutz-Kinoy's exhibition The Mud Room, De la Fourche au Four à la Fourchette, Broke the Plate is a cuisine performance with Matthew Lutz-Kinoy, Natsuko Uchino, Chelsea Culprit, Dena Yago, Hadi Falapishi, Tenko Nakajima, and Arley Marks in collaboration with Zoli Kitchen. Conceived as an interdisciplinary performance, the program interrogates the historical and material lineages of applied arts, mapping a trajectory from agricultural labor (“la fourche”) to the kiln (“le four”) and on to the domestic sphere (“la fourchette”). The script is an adaptation of Farming in Europe, a collaborative play first presented at New Theater Berlin in 2013, written by Dena Yago, Calla Henkel, Max Pitegoff, and Pablo Larios, with costumes developed by Lutz-Kinoy.

  

Learn more →

Reading & Screening

A DARKLING RING OF UNRESOLVED SHADOWS WITH PAUL MAHEKE

  

Wednesday, October 14, 2026
7–9 pm
Géza, 306 Maujer

  

  

As part of the Fall 2026 For Your Reference series, Paul Maheke presents A Darkling Ring of Unresolved Shadows, an evening that combines live reading, sound, and moving image. Bringing together texts and sounds both borrowed and written by Maheke, the work explores interdependency in relation to death, with particular attention to how marginalized people are represented in the face of it. Moving between science fiction, diary notes, personal observations, and other fragments, Maheke considers the tenuous border between the visible and the invisible.

  

Entry is free; RSVP encouraged.

  

Learn more →

Community Event

OPEN HOUSE NEW YORK

  

Friday, October 16–Sunday, October 18, 2026
315 Maujer

  

  

Amant joins more than 300 organizations across New York City’s five boroughs for the annual Open House New York Weekend.

  

Throughout the weekend, Amant will offer a series of special tours in collaboration with Zoli and GRT Architects, the design firm behind the recent campus expansion. The program will include walkthroughs of our current exhibitions Sentient Earth and Matthew Lutz-Kinoy’s The Mud Room along with the architecture tours of Zoli.

  

Tours are led by the Amant team and GRT Architects. The groups will meet in the courtyard at 315 Maujer St. for the following tours:
Friday, Oct. 16, 4 pm: Amant + Zoli
Saturday, Oct. 17, 4 pm: Amant + Zoli
Sunday, Oct. 18, 2 pm: Amant

  

Entry is free; no RSVP required.

  

Learn more →

Community Day

COOPER PARK BLOCK PARTY

  

Saturday, October 17, 2026
1–5 pm
Maspeth Ave, Brooklyn, NY 11211

  

  

Together with the Friends of Cooper Park, Amant co-hosts the fifth annual Cooper Park Block Party, a free community gathering that brings neighbors together to celebrate the fall season. The afternoon will feature screen-printing with Bushwick Print Lab, music, a raffle with prizes, and plenty of opportunities to connect over art making, apple cider, doughnuts, and warm coffee.

  

Cooper Park Block Party is free and open to all. The event is located at Cooper Park off Sharon Street between Olive Street and Morgan Ave.

  

Learn More →

Lecture Performance

AUTODRAMA WITH GARY ZHEXI ZHANG

  

Thursday, October 29, 2026
7–9 pm
Géza, 306 Maujer

  

  

In Autodrama, Fall 2026 resident Gary Zhexi Zhang presents a performance lecture centered on his experiments with autonomous actors staged within a self-directing game engine. Zhang creates scenes in which, independently of a player, characters, lighting, and cameras shape the narrative and emotional dynamics of the work.  Part meditation on media and part visual chamber play, the program explores parasociality and the cybernetics of identity.

  

Entry is free; RSVP encouraged.

  

Learn more →

  

RECENT PRESS

  

“The ARTnews Accord: Collectors J. Tomilson Hill and Lonti Ebers On What It Means to Support Art Today”

  

Read on ARTnews →

  

“The Restaurant List 2026 ”

  

Read on The New York Times →

  

“Where to Eat in NYC Right Now”

  

Read on bon appétit →

  

“The Best New Restaurants in Brooklyn, According to Eater Editors”

  

Read on Eater New York →

  

“The Art of Extraction”

  

Read on The New York Review →

  

“Hyperallergic Fall 2026 New York Art Guide”

  

Read on Hyperallergic →

  

“At Amant, ‘Sentient Earth’ Redirects the Corporate Gaze to Climate Change”

  

Read on ARTnews →

  

“All the Art You Need to See During Armory Week 2026”

  

Read on Artsy →

  

“‘Sentient Earth’ Doesn’t Offer Visions of a Sustainable Future”

  

Read on Frieze →

  

“NYC Gallery Blitz, the Lucas Museum Arrives, a Messy Art Divorce by The Art Angle”

  

Listen on Apple Podcasts →

  

“Amant’s exhibition Christelle Oyiri: Belief May Vary nominated for Third Annual ARTnews Awards”

  

Read on ARTnews →

  

“Girl in a Bland”

  

Read on grime square→

Amant is a non-profit arts organization in Brooklyn, New York that fosters experimentation and dialogue through exhibitions, public programs, and artist residencies.

Amant:

315 Maujer St.
Brooklyn, NY 11206
amant.org
contact@amant.org

Follow us:

Instagram

Galleries:

Thurs: 12–6 pm
Fri: 12–9 pm
Sat & Sun: 12–6 pm

Kis Café & Bookstore:

Mon–Wed: 9 am–2 pm
Thurs: 9–6 pm
Fri: 9–9 pm
Sat & Sun: 9–6 pm

Zoli:

312 Maujer St.
Brooklyn, NY 11206
zolirestaurant.com

Follow us:

Instagram

   

Zoli:   

Wed–Sun: 5–11 pm  Closed Mon & Tues