UID:673 | 2026-10-05 | "e-flux Events" <events@mailer.e-flux.com> | This week at e-flux: Tomin, Louis Massiah, Monica Henriquez, Pınar Öğrenci, Maaza Mengiste

Join us this Wednesday at Bar Laika for Playback 0039, an informal listening event with Tomin; on Th… This week at e-flux: Tomin, Louis Massiah, Monica Henriquez, Pınar Öğrenci, Maaza Mengiste

Join us this Wednesday at Bar Laika for Playback 0039, an informal listening event with Tomin; on Thursday at e-flux for a screening of TCB – The Toni Cade Bambara School of Organizing, directed by Louis Massiah and Monica Henriquez; and on Saturday at e-flux for a screening of works by Pınar Öğrenci followed by an in-person conversation between Öğrenci and Maaza Mengiste.

 

This week at e-flux

Photo credit: Alejandro Ayala

Bar Laika presents Playback 0039 with Tomin
Wednesday, October 07, 2026, 7pm

Join us at Bar Laika for the thirty-ninth edition of Playback with Tomin, a self-taught multi-instrumentalist, bioinformatician, and poet from Brooklyn, New York. His primary instruments are the flute, trumpet, and alto clarinet, and he participates in the creative music scene as a performer, improvisor, composer, and fan. Outside of music, he works in computational genetics, with a focus on oncology. Read more here. 

Louis Massiah and Monica Henriquez, TCB – The Toni Cade Bambara School of Organizing (still), 2025.

Louis Massiah and Monica Henriquez’s TCB – The Toni Cade Bambara School of Organizing
Thursday, October 08, 2026, 6pm

Admission:
General $12
Student $10

The African Film Institute invites you for a screening of TCB – The Toni Cade Bambara School of Organizing (2025, 105 minutes), directed by Louis Massiah and Monica Henriquez. Structured as a series of classes in cultural organizing, the film reconstructs the life of a woman whose literary works and film collaborations became a catalyzing force in 20th-century political movements. Toni Morrison, Nikky Finney, and filmmaker Haile Gerima are among those who testify to Bambara's humor, fierce commitment to collective action, and gift for galvanizing artists into community work. The film is a warm and stylish portrait that makes a compelling case for why her approach to activism feels as urgent now as it did then. Read more here. 

Pinar Öğrenci, A New Year’s Eve (still), 2021.

Under the Red Sky: Pınar Öğrenci’s Art of Responding

Screening and Conversation
Saturday, October 10, 2026, 3pm

Admissions
General $12
Student $10

 

From early videos using found YouTube footage to large-scale installations, this retrospective screening traces the history of Pınar Öğrenci’s cinematic production from her first publicly exhibited video to her most recent site-specific work. The films in this screening attest to the artist’s sustained commitment, publicly and privately, to the issues of displacement, migration, survival, and resistance, and are threaded together through formal considerations of music, source material, and re-enactment. In this progression, we witness not only the development of Öğrenci’s artistic vision through various non-fictional experiments but also her own biography—forced to flee Istanbul for Berlin under political persecution and the threat of undue incarceration. The screening will be followed by an in-person conversation between Öğrenci and novelist Maaza Mengiste. This event is presented in collaboration with Goethe-Institut New York. Read more here. 

Stay tuned to upcoming programs at e-flux on our website, or subscribe to our events mailing list here. For more information, contact program@e-flux.com.

Contact

Facebook
X
Instagram

e-flux App

172 Classon Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11205
USA

This announcement was sent to wf.eventscout@gmail.com. You have received it because you have successfully subscribed to e-flux Events. You can revoke your consent and