UID:680 | 2026-10-05 | "e-flux Agenda" <art-agenda@mailer.e-flux.com> | Tiderip relocates to Fitzrovia

Tiderip announces the relocation of its gallery to 17 Percy Street, Fitzrovia, opening on October 7,…

  

Gallery relocation to Fitzrovia

Tiderip

Marjorier Ding and Louis Jacquier, Tiderip, 2026. © ZimplePlus Studio.

I Just Gotta Do It: October 7–November 7
17 Percy Street, London W1T 1DU

Tiderip
17 Percy Street
London, W1T 1DU
UK

www.tiderip.co.uk
Instagram

Tiderip announces the relocation of its gallery to 17 Percy Street, Fitzrovia, opening on October 7, 2026. The gallery’s programme will move between solo presentations and thematic group exhibitions, creating conversations between emerging and established artists and across different contemporary practices.

Located in the heart of Fitzrovia, the new space will allow Tiderip to expand its exhibition programme and deepen its engagement with collectors, artists and institutions.

“Fitzrovia feels like a natural next step for Tiderip as our programme continues to evolve,” said Marjorier Ding and Louis Jacquier, founders of Tiderip. “The gallery has always grown through close relationships with artists whose practices we genuinely believe in and collectors who want to engage with them over time. The new space will allow us to deepen those relationships and take that approach further.”

The new space will open on October 7, 2026 with I Just Gotta Do It, a solo exhibition by British painter Alexandra Baraitser and her first solo presentation at a commercial gallery since 2007. Bringing together a new body of paintings with an earlier work from 2007, the exhibition traces Baraitser’s longstanding exploration of design, photography and painting.

Tiderip, 17 Percy Street, London W1T 1DU. For enquiries, please contact: gallery@tiderip.co.uk.

Contact

Facebook
X
Instagram

e-flux App

172 Classon Avenue
Brooklyn, NY 11205
USA

This announcement was sent to wf.eventScout@gmail.com. You have received it because you have successfully subscribed to e-flux Agenda. You can revoke your consent and