UID:684 | 2026-10-05 | "Guggenheim New York" <guggenheim@emails.guggenheim.org> | October 5–18: Late Shift returns, Architecture Tours, Works & Process performances, and more!

Explore upcoming programs at the Guggenheim New York

What’s On
October 5–18
  View the calendar →
 

 

Step inside the rotunda this month to experience Taryn Simon | Father Country I Do Love You, the monumental exhibition featured in The New York Times Magazine, Harper's Bazaar, and recently reviewed in the Financial Times.

There’s so much to discover for all audiences and we invite you to explore the show after hours at Late Shift, with your family at Stroller Hour or Little Guggs, or at one of our Teen Tuesday events. Plus, explore the building at one of our weekend Architecture Tours this month in celebration of Archtober.  
 

Plan your visit  →

 

Special Events and Experiences
 

 

Late Shift
   Thursday, October 15, 6:30 pm

Experience the museum’s iconic spiral after dark during Late Shift—the Guggenheim’s monthly after-hours series, when the galleries stay open late and the vibe shifts.

This month, Arushi Jain and Debit will bring psychedelic and blended Latin-inspired sounds to the rotunda floor.  

Buy tickets →

 

Architecture Tours
   Saturdays & Sundays, 11:30 am–12:30 pm

Join us for an hour-long tour of the Guggenheim New York’s stunning architecture.

These building walkthroughs guide visitors through the rich history and structural elements of Frank Lloyd Wright’s landmark building, while offering insights into its innovative materials and design.

More info and tickets →

 

Maker-Led Pop-Ups: Fuxico by Davi Leventhal
   Tuesday, October 6, 1–5 pm

Join artist, educator, and community organizer Davi Leventhal for a fuxico-making workshop, part of his ongoing work The Fuxico Project. Free with museum admission.

Learn more →

 

Café Rebay x Patrick Rosal
   October 7, 14 & 15, 10:30 am–5 pm

In this public project designed for Café Rebay, Guggenheim Poet-in-Residence Patrick Rosal, poses a series of questions on the topic of water and asks visitors to respond through reflection, dialogue, and making. Free with museum admission.

Learn more →

 

For Kids and Families
 

 

Teen Tuesday
   Tuesday, October 6, 4–5:30 pm

Connect with other teen artists and explore your creativity. Explore the museum and enjoy a hands-on fuxico workshop with Davi Leventhal at 4 pm, snacks and time to hang out with other creative teens.

RSVP →

 

Little Guggs
   Wednesdays, October 7, 14, and 21, 9:30–10:30 am

Join us for fun-filled mornings of creative play and sensory discovery in the spiral!

From dynamic movement to material exploration, Little Guggs follows children's natural curiosity and offers new ways to experience the museum together.

More info and tickets →

 

Stroller Hour
   Saturday, October 10, 9:30–10:30 am

One Saturday each month, families with children ages 5 and under are invited to enjoy the museum for an hour before it opens to the public.

Experience the rotunda exhibition in a welcoming environment and explore works on view. Free for members.

More info and tickets →

 

Art Cart
   Every Saturday, times vary

Families and visitors of all ages are invited to explore current exhibitions through communal artmaking in the galleries. Each month introduces a new activity and motivating question, guiding participants through a creative exploration of materials and ideas.

More info and tickets →
 
 

Works & Process at Guggenheim New York
 

 

Minnesota Opera: The Many Deaths of Laila Starr by Kamala Sankaram & Minita Gandhi
   Monday, October 12, 7–8:15 pm

Witness the transformation of BOOM! Studios’ acclaimed comic, The Many Deaths of Laila Starr by Ram V. and Filipe Andrade, into a vivid and transporting tale for the operatic stage by composer Kamala Sankaram and librettist Minita Gandhi.

Buy tickets →

 

Washington National Opera: O’Keeffe: Kiss the Sky by Christopher Tin, Kelley Rourke
   Sunday, October 18, 7–8:15 pm

O’Keeffe: Kiss the Sky traces the journey of Georgia O’Keeffe as she becomes one of America’s most iconic creative forces, and the people who shaped her along the way.

Go behind the scenes of this groundbreaking opera-ballet commissioned by the Washington National Opera, before its world premiere in Spring 2027.

More info and tickets →

 

Beyond the Spiral
 

Explore digital highlights from across the constellation.

Watch Claes Oldenburg and Coosje van Bruggen's "Soft Shuttlecock" (1995) land at the Guggenheim, the first time the monumental sculpture, with nine feathers measuring 26 feet each, has been on view in New York for 25 years.

Watch here →
 

The Guggenheim gratefully acknowledges its Global Partners. 

Learn more about our exhibitions and sponsors: Guggenheim Pop: 1960 to Now, Collection in Focus | Modern European Currents, and  Taryn Simon | Father Country I Do Love You.

To learn more about our education funders, visit guggenheim.org/education.

Gifts from friends like you make an impact on every aspect of the museum. Donate now →

Photo: David Heald; Filip Wolak; Phil Groshon & Paul Horpedahl
 

View in browser
Update profile
Privacy policy Guggenheim New York
1071 Fifth Ave at 89th St
New York, NY, 10128 United States
212 423 3500
guggenheim.org