UID:685 | 2026-10-05 | "NYU Game Center" <gamecenter@nyu.edu> | Game Design Days Application Open! We're Hiring! NY Games Week!

Upcoming events, and more...

This Week:
NY Games Week Special Edition Playtest Thursday
Thursday, October 8th, 5:30pm - 7:30pm
370 Jay Street, Room 233
External Guests Join the Guest List Here

More info about the Special Edition and other NY Games Week news further below!

Next Week:

Playtest Thursday
Thursday, October 15th, 5:30pm - 7:30pm
370 Jay Street, Room 233
External Guests Join the Guest List Here

Apply to host an event for Game Design Days!

 

Game Design Days (November 30 - December 4)  is a week of playful pop-up events and programming highlighting local orgs around game design, culminating in No Quarter, the NYU Game Center’s premier community exhibition!

We are looking for Non-Profit Organization partners, and providing selected partners $3000 in matching funds to produce and host an event for members of our NYC indie development community, game design students, and anyone curious about game design. Events include: networking events, workshops, game nights, industry panels, social events, and more! 

Have an idea for an event & interested in applying? Fill out this application form by end of day October 16th! 

More info and apply here!

We're Hiring!

 

The NYU Game Center is searching for a Programs and Grants Administrator to join our admin team!

This role will support several key areas of the department’s work, including:
 * Program administration and coordination across Game Center initiatives
 * Management and reporting for the Center of Excellence (CoE) grant, including compliance, budgeting, and long-term sustainability
 * Support for the Game Center Incubator and related industry-facing programming
 * Close collaboration with our Program Administrator & Industry Liaison on industry partnerships, student opportunities, and professional programming

This is a great opportunity for someone interested in the intersection of games, higher education, industry partnerships, program administration, and grant management. The position also involves occasional travel throughout the year.

More info and apply here!

New York Games Week

NEW YORK GAMES WEEK IS THIS WEEK!

The inaugural New York Games Week, a grand celebration of the video game industry and community, will feature events, showcases, conferences, tournaments, summits, professional mixers, and meetups across the five boroughs of New York City from Oct 4 - 11. You can read more about it in this Variety article here.

 

The NYU Game Center will be participating in a handful of events, including:

GDFL Cohort Celebration
Tuesday, October 6th, 6:00pm - 9:00pm
Attendance is by invitation - request an invitation here

On the evening of October 6th, our colleagues are hosting a Demo Day to send off GDFL Cohort 001 and welcome Cohort 002!

The NYC Game Design Future Lab is a games incubator at NYU Tandon, supported by the New York City Economic Development Corporation. Each year we take a cohort of NYC studios and creative technology companies and give them twelve months of space, mentorship and industry access at 370 Jay St.

Playtest Thursday - NY Games Week Edition
Thursday, October 8th, 5:30pm - 7:30pm
370 Jay Street, Room 233
Join the PTT guest list here

If you're going to attend only one Playtest Thursday this year, make it this one! 

In partnership with GameMaker Community of NY/NJ, there will be free snacks and industry guests!

 

More info here!

NYU Game Center would like to thank our event sponsors.
  Their generous support makes our events possible.
Take-Two Interactive
Empire State Development