UID:695 | 2026-10-06 | "The Graduate Center" <gcevents@gc.cuny.edu> | AI and the Future of Education / Historian David Blight

Join us in person or online for an important discussion on how AI is changing the way students learn — and how to navigate this uncharted territory. Reserve now! 

Wednesday, October 14, 6:30 p.m.
AI and the Future of Education
FREE; RESERVE NOW

Artificial intelligence has caused seismic disruption in the field of education in just a few years. Students, educators, and parents are confused about how to navigate this game-changing technology. How should schools from K-12 to colleges and universities approach learning in this new era, and how can they prepare students for success in a transformed workplace? A panel of experts weighs in on the salient issues, the points of tension, and possible paths forward. 
 
Featuring Steven Jackson, professor of information science and science and technology studies and vice provost for academic innovation at Cornell University; Aankit Patel, university dean for technology and computer and information sciences, The City University of New York; and Natasha Singer, a technology reporter for the business section of The New York Times, whose new book is Coding Kids: Big Tech's Battle to Remake Public Schools. Luke Waltzer, director of the Teaching and Learning Center at the CUNY Graduate Center, moderates.
 
Presented with the Teaching and Learning Center, CUNY AI Lab, GC Digital Initiatives, the American Social History Project/Center for Media and Learning, and the Mina Rees Library. 

This week, don't miss the Leon Levy Biography Lecture by historian David Blight — reserve to attend in person or online!

Wednesday, October 7, 6:00 p.m.
David Blight: Biography and History in Authoritarian Times
Annual Leon Levy Biography Lecture
FREE; RESERVE NOW

David Blight, one of America’s leading historians of the Civil War and Reconstruction and author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning book Frederick Douglass: Prophet of Freedom gives this year’s Leon Levy Lecture on the craft of biography. In his talk, titled “Biography and History in Authoritarian Times," Blight intends to “address the current crisis … as well as dive into the details of biography as it has developed over recent decades.” Blight is the author or editor of a dozen books, including American Oracle: The Civil War in the Civil Rights Era; Race and Reunion: The Civil War in American Memory; and annotated editions of Douglass’ first two autobiographies. Besides the Pulitzer, he has been awarded the Bancroft Prize, the Abraham Lincoln Prize, and the Frederick Douglass Prize, among others. Blight is Sterling Professor of History and director of the Gilder Lehrman Center for the Study of Slavery, Resistance, and Abolition at Yale University.

Presented with the Leon Levy Center for Biography.

View the Fall 2026 Schedule