UID:703 | 2026-10-06 | "Library for the Performing Arts" <lpaupdates@email.nypl.org> | Wynton Marsalis & Peter Gelb, Waacking Showcase, and Direct Cinema at the Library for the Performing Arts

From a free screening of 'Ghostbusters' to free tours of our Martha Graham exhibition and much more, there's a lot going on this October!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               

View in browser Forward

This October, we have a robust lineup of upcoming programs including live chamber music commemorating the 200th anniversary of Beethoven's death, a free screening of Ghostbusters for families accompanied by selection of short 16mm films from our archive, a conversation between Wynton Marsalis and the Met Opera's Peter Gelb, and much more!

LIBRARY SPOTLIGHT

----------------------------------------

BANNED BOOKS WEEK: DISCOVER PLAYS THAT HAVE FACED CENSORSHIP

Banned Books Week celebrates the freedom to read and the importance of access to knowledge. But the fight against censorship extends beyond library shelves and onto stages throughout the country. The Library for the Performing Arts has worked with No Book Bans, a group that supports youth access to theatrical works around identity, to highlight a selection of plays from the Library's circulating collection that have been the subject of banning efforts in schools. Similar to challenged books, theatrical works that have faced bans often center people of color, disability experiences, and LGBTQ+ voices. Engaging with this material—all year round, but especially during Banned Books Week—is one way to resist efforts to suppress or erase targeted identities. 

Read More

EXHIBITIONS

----------------------------------------

George Balanchine with his cat Mourka, 1964. Photo © Martha Swope. Jerome Robbins Dance Division.

DISCOVER THE PETS BEHIND THE PERFORMING ARTISTS

Through February 6, 2027 | Library for the Performing Arts
History abounds with performing artists devoted to their animal companions. From Billie Holiday's boxer Mister and Anna Pavlova's pet swan Jack to Larry Kramer's beloved hound Molly, animals have quietly shaped the lives and work of some of the world's most iconic performers. Drawing from the rich archives of the three Library for the Performing Arts' divisions—the Jerome Robbins Dance Division, the Billy Rose Theatre Division, and the Music and Recorded Sound Division—Unleashed: Pets of the Performing Arts gives center stage to the animals behind the artists. The result of a collaboration between the assistant curators of each division, Jenai Cutcher, Annemarie van Roessel, and Jessica Wood, this exhibition celebrates a unique cast of companions who mastered the very instincts performance demands.

Read More

TAKE A FREE TOUR OF MARTHA GRAHAM: THE MOTHER OF PSYCHOLOGICAL DANCE

Wednesday, October 28 & Saturday, November 7 | 11 AM | Library for the Performing Arts
Discover the history of Martha Graham and her dance company in one of our free, guided tours of our exhibition, curated by Jack Ferver. Available through November 7, these staff-led tours highlight the legacy of Graham and her dance technique, as well as the company, which is the oldest continuously operating dance company in the United States.

Register

UPCOMING PROGRAMS

----------------------------------------

Photo of Lloyd Knight.

MARTHA GRAHAM'S EFFECT ON THE DANCER LLOYD KNIGHT

Wednesday, October 7 | 1 PM | Online
In an effort to understand the ways an artist of today makes their way, Lloyd Knight goes back in time to discover what might have driven Martha Graham to push her artistry. With spoken word, visual diagrams, and dance, Knight, a dancer well-versed in Graham's work, attempts to understand why he does what he does in his career and why Graham's life has had an effect on his professional being and belief. In connection with the current exhibition on view around Graham, join us online for this rebroadcast of the 2024 Dance Division Symposium during which the Dance Research Fellows presented their work from the acquired collection of the Martha Graham Dance Company.

Register

New York Classical Players

COMMEMORATING THE 200TH ANNIVERSARY OF BEETHOVEN'S DEATH

Thursday, October 15 | 6 PM | Library for the Performing Arts
Commemorating the 200th anniversary of Beethoven's death, New York Classical Players' "Beethoven 200" chamber series opens with a journey through the composer’s evolving voice. Two early quartets, the elegant Op. 18, No. 2 and the Mozart-inflected Op. 18, No. 5, lead to the heroic brilliance of the 3rd Razumovsky Quartet with its exhilarating fugal finale. The evening closes with Op. 132, one of Beethoven’s most intimate late works, centered on the transcendent "Holy Song of Thanksgiving."

Read More

Photo of Michael Byrne.

MICHAEL BYRNE EXAMINES MARTHA GRAHAM'S AMERICAN DOCUMENT TODAY

Monday, October 19 | 7 PM | Online
One year before the beginning of World War II, Martha Graham created American Document in response to rising fascism in 1930s Europe. Today's current events offer an uncanny resonance, embedding Graham's historic work with a recursive sense of futurity and prescience. In 2024, Michael Byrne used his Dance Research Fellowship to explore how we can vivify Graham's ongoing spirit of innovation and societal critique through the intersection of (re)performance, technology, and archival practice. Join us online for the rebroadcast of the 2024 Dance Division Symposium during which the eighth cohort of Dance Research Fellows presented their work from the acquired collection of the Martha Graham Dance Company.

Register

Photographer unknown. Papers of John F. Kennedy, Pre-Presidential Papers, Presidential Campaign Files, 1960. John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum, Boston.

SCREENING ESSENTIAL WORKS FROM THE 1960S DIRECT CINEMA MOVEMENT

Thursday, October 22 | 6:30 PM | Library for the Performing Arts
Documentary filmmaking was the first genre to emerge from the new medium of film when it was presented to the public in the late 19th century. Termed "actualities," these short recordings captured life as it was happening: workers leaving a factory, a family at an outdoor breakfast table, the arrival of a train at the station. In this film program, we screen an interview with members of the Direct Cinema movement from the 1960s, as well as their essential works, that emerged as a reaction to early documentary film. All films from the Reserve Film and Video Collection will be shown in their original 16mm format.

Register

Library for the Performing Arts' Bruno Walter Auditorium.

PREMIERING NEW MUSICALS MADE AT THE LIBRARY

Saturday, October 24 | 11 AM–5 PM | Library for the Performing Arts
Since 2014, the Library for the Performing Arts' summer musical theater writing program, Across a Crowded Room, has brought together lyricists, composers, bookwriters, and performers to form new collaborations and write 20-minute musicals with advice from experts in the industry. At the end of each program, the artists present their new musical theater works to the public. Join us for this special first performance of these works!

Register

Wynton Marsalis, photo by Stephanie Berger.

WYNTON MARSALIS AND PETER GELB IN CONVERSATION

Tuesday, October 27 | 6 PM | Library for the Performing Arts
Lincoln Center Visionary Artist Wynton Marsalis and the Met Opera's Peter Gelb head to the Library for the Performing Arts for a conversation on the influences of jazz across genres. Drawing from their distinct institutional and artistic perspectives, the two explore how improvisation, composition, narrative, and tradition converge to inspire new works. This event is presented in collaboration with the Metropolitan Opera.

Register

Panorama Revival at City Center. Photo by Martha Swope, 1992. Jerome Robbins Dance Division.

RECONSTRUCTING LOST WORKS BY MARTHA GRAHAM 

Wednesday, October 28 | 1 PM | Library for the Performing Arts
Virginie Mécène, a former Principal Dancer with the Martha Graham Dance Company and former Director of Graham 2, discusses her experience in the reconstruction of Martha Graham's Panorama, Prelude to Action, and The Puritan Duet from American Document, and the process of reimagining lost dances in this month’s edition of "The Dance Historian Is In."

Register

 Courtesy of Columbia Pictures.

SPEND HALLOWEEN WATCHING GHOSTBUSTERS 

Saturday, October 31 | 1 PM | Library for the Performing Arts
This Halloween, join us at the Library for the Performing Arts for the classic Ghostbusters as part of our New Classics series at the Library for Performing Arts. Watch as Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd and Harold Ramis bring their wit and humor to the big screen.

Register

Photo of Princess Lockerooo by Kate Singh.

WAACKING SHOWCASE: THE NEXT GENERATION

Saturday, November 7 | 3 PM | Library for the Performing Arts
The Waack Dancer Training Program, founded by the "Queen of Waacking" Princess Lockerooo, centers technique, musicality, self-expression, and—most importantly—history. Waacking was born in the gay clubs of 1970s Los Angeles, shaped by drag, glamour, and the need for freedom and individuality—Lockerooo, protégé of Waacking pioneer Tyrone Proctor, carries that legacy forward. She has worked with hundreds of dancers over the past three years through her program. This performance features original Waacking pieces created as part of the currently enrolled dancers' final project, alongside drag numbers by second-level students. 

Register

FRIENDS OF THE LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

----------------------------------------

DON'T FORGET TO CLAIM YOUR MEMBERSHIP OFFER—3 MONTHS FREE!

Join Friends of The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts today and receive three free months of membership through December 31, 2027. Enjoy exclusive event access, member discounts, and the chance to champion the future of the LPA.

Become a Member

FROM OUR FRIENDS

----------------------------------------

GNO Orchestra with maestro Vassilis Christopoulos, credit GNO - Andreas Simopoulos.

GREEK NATIONAL OPERA DEBUTS IN THE U.S. AT CARNEGIE HALL

Thursday, October 15 | 8 PM | Carnegie Hall
The Greek National Opera brings its orchestra to the United States for the first time this fall, making its debut in New York at Carnegie Hall. The opera presents a tribute to Nikos Kazantzakis, Greece's towering literary figure, featuring landmark works by Manos Hadjidakis, Mikis Theodorakis, Nikos Skalkottas, Dimitri Mitropoulos, and Giorgos Koumendakis; performed by the Greek National Opera Orchestra conducted by Vassilis Christopoulos, with soloists Anita Rachvelishvili and Maria Kostraki. Use discount code GNO57514 for 25% off tickets.

Register

----------------------------------------

Sponsors

The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts gratefully acknowledges the leadership support of Dorothy and Lewis B. Cullman. Additional support for exhibitions has been provided by Judy R. and Alfred A. Rosenberg and the Miriam and Harold Steinberg Foundation. 

Martha Graham: The Mother of Psychological Dance is made possible by the generosity of Jody and John Arnhold and the Arnhold Foundation, The Jerome Robbins Foundation, the Anne H. Bass Foundation, Leslie Tonner Curtis, Allen Greenberg, and Edward A. Brill.

----------------------------------------

The Library for the Performing Arts e-newsletter was sent to wf.eventscout@gmail.com.

Donate | LPA Events | Forward to a Friend | Update Your Profile | 1-Click